["   Coast Savings Financial Inc. reported a third-quarter loss, citing a previously announced capital restructuring program.    The Los Angeles thrift holding company said it had a loss of $92.2 million, or $6.98 a share, for the quarter ended Sept. 30. Coast earned $10.2 million, or 67 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The year-ago results  have  been restated  to comply with government regulations.    The restructuring program  is designed  to increase the company's tangible capital ratio. It includes removing $242 million in good will from the books, issuing $150 million in preferred stock and commencing an exchange offer for $52 million in convertible bonds.    During the third quarter, the company charged about $46 million against earnings in reducing goodwill, added $20 million to its general loan loss reserves and established a $30 million reserve for its high-yield bond portfolio. The company said its junk-bond portfolio after these moves  had  been reduced to less than 1% of assets. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0325.tml']
['   Courtaulds PLC announced plans to spin off its textiles operations to existing shareholders in a restructuring to boost shareholder value.    The British chemical and textile company\'s plan, which requires shareholder approval, would create a new, listed U.K. stock with a probable market capitalization between #300 million ($473 million) and #400 million, analysts said. The establishment of the separate company, to be called Courtaulds Textiles, could be effective as early as next year\'s first quarter.    Investors welcomed the move. Courtaulds\' shares rose 15 pence to 362 pence, valuing the entire company at about #1.44 billion.    Courtaulds\' spinoff reflects pressure on British industry to boost share prices beyond the reach of corporate raiders. Courtaulds\' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain, though it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC\'s plans to spin roughly off #4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith. The divested Courtaulds textile operations had operating profit of #50 million on #980 million in revenue in the year ended March 31.    Some analysts have said Courtaulds\' moves could boost the company\'s value by 5% to 10%, because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined. In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.    Courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value since takeover speculators -- including Australian financier Kerry Packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year. Though Mr. Packer has since sold his stake, Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy. Even without a specific takeover threat, Courtaulds is giving shareholders "choice and value," said Julia Blake, an analyst at London stockbrokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.    In a statement, the company said: "Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies. The sharper definition and the autonomy which each will thereby gain will benefit shareholders, customers and employees."    Courtaulds Chairman and Chief Executive Sir Christopher Hogg will remain in both posts at the surviving chemical company after the spinoff. ', 'keep', 'wsj_0376.tml']
['   Courtaulds PLC announced plans to spin off its textiles operations to existing shareholders in a restructuring to boost shareholder value.    The British chemical and textile company\'s plan, which requires shareholder approval, would create a new, listed U.K. stock with a probable market capitalization between #300 million ($473 million) and #400 million, analysts said. The establishment of the separate company, to be called Courtaulds Textiles, could be effective as early as next year\'s first quarter.    Investors welcomed the move. Courtaulds\' shares rose 15 pence to 362 pence, valuing the entire company at about #1.44 billion.    Courtaulds\' spinoff reflects pressure on British industry to boost share prices beyond the reach of corporate raiders. Courtaulds\' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain, though it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC\'s plans to spin roughly off #4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith. The divested Courtaulds textile operations had operating profit of #50 million on #980 million in revenue in the year ended March 31.    Some analysts have said Courtaulds\' moves could boost the company\'s value by 5% to 10%, because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined. In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.    Courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value since takeover speculators -- including Australian financier Kerry Packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year. Though Mr. Packer has since sold his stake, Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy. Even without a specific takeover threat, Courtaulds is giving shareholders "choice and value," said Julia Blake, an analyst at London stockbrokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.    In a statement, the company said: "Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies. The sharper definition and the autonomy which each will thereby gain will benefit shareholders, customers and employees."    Courtaulds Chairman and Chief Executive Sir Christopher Hogg will remain in both posts at the surviving chemical company after the spinoff. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0376.tml']
["   Ocean Drilling amp Exploration Co. will sell its contract-drilling business, and took a $50.9 million loss from discontinued operations in the third quarter because of the planned sale.    The New Orleans oil and gas exploration and diving operations company added that it does n't expect any further adverse financial impact from the restructuring.    In the third quarter, the company, which is 61%-owned by Murphy Oil Corp. of Arkansas, had a net loss of $46.9 million, or 91 cents a share, compared with a restated loss of $9 million, or 18 cents a share, a year ago. The latest period had profit from continuing operations of $4 million. Revenue gained 13% to $77.3 million from $68.5 million.    Ocean Drilling said it will offer 15% to 20% of the contract-drilling business through an initial public offering in the near future. It has long been rumored that Ocean Drilling would sell the unit to concentrate on its core oil and gas business.    Ocean Drilling said it wo n't hold any shares of the new company after the restructuring. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0313.tml']
['   The Finnish government and major creditors of bankrupt shipyard Waertsilae Marine Industries Oy agreed in principle  to form a new company  to complete most of the troubled shipyard\'s backlog of 15 ships.    The new company  will attempt  to limit the shipyard\'s losses, participants said. "The situation is that the bankruptcy court  will get out of the shipbuilding business. Everything  will  be taken over by the new company," said Christian Andersson, executive vice president of Oy Waertsilae, former parent of Waertsilae Marine.    Once its ownership  is finalized, the new company will open talks with state-appointed receivers  to buy or lease Waertsilae Marine\'s shipyard facilities. Subcontractors  will  be offered a settlement and a swift transition to new management  is expected  to avert an exodus of skilled workers from Waertsilae Marine\'s two big shipyards, government officials said.    Under an accord signed yesterday, the government and Union Bank of Finland would become major shareholders in the new company, each injecting 100 million Finnish markkaa ($23.5 million). Oy Waertsilae is  to contribute 200 million markkaa, most of it as subordinated debt, and take a minority stake in the new company.    Customers holding contracts for Waertsilae Marine\'s undelivered ships  are expected  to subscribe most of the remaining 170 million markkaa in share capital, government officials said.    Waertsilae Marine\'s biggest creditor is Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. Carnival, which has three ships on order from Waertsilae Marine, presented claims for $1.5 billion damages in the bankruptcy court this week.    Waertsilae Marine\'s bankruptcy proceedings began Tuesday in a Helsinki court. ', 'avert', 'wsj_0187.tml']
['   The Finnish government and major creditors of bankrupt shipyard Waertsilae Marine Industries Oy agreed in principle  to form a new company  to complete most of the troubled shipyard\'s backlog of 15 ships.    The new company  will attempt  to limit the shipyard\'s losses, participants said. "The situation is that the bankruptcy court  will get out of the shipbuilding business. Everything  will  be taken over by the new company," said Christian Andersson, executive vice president of Oy Waertsilae, former parent of Waertsilae Marine.    Once its ownership  is finalized, the new company will open talks with state-appointed receivers  to buy or lease Waertsilae Marine\'s shipyard facilities. Subcontractors  will  be offered a settlement and a swift transition to new management  is expected  to avert an exodus of skilled workers from Waertsilae Marine\'s two big shipyards, government officials said.    Under an accord signed yesterday, the government and Union Bank of Finland would become major shareholders in the new company, each injecting 100 million Finnish markkaa ($23.5 million). Oy Waertsilae is  to contribute 200 million markkaa, most of it as subordinated debt, and take a minority stake in the new company.    Customers holding contracts for Waertsilae Marine\'s undelivered ships  are expected  to subscribe most of the remaining 170 million markkaa in share capital, government officials said.    Waertsilae Marine\'s biggest creditor is Miami-based Carnival Cruise Lines Inc. Carnival, which has three ships on order from Waertsilae Marine, presented claims for $1.5 billion damages in the bankruptcy court this week.    Waertsilae Marine\'s bankruptcy proceedings began Tuesday in a Helsinki court. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0187.tml']
['   Rally\'s Inc. said it adopted a shareholders rights plan to protect shareholders from an inadequately priced takeover offer.    The plan provides for the distribution of one common stock-purchase right as a dividend for each share of common outstanding. Each right entitles shareholders to buy one-half share of common for $30.    Earlier this month, a group led by three of the company\'s directors, Burt Sugarman, James M. Trotter III and Willam E. Trotter II, indicated it had a 45.2% stake in the Louisville, Ky., fast-food company and that it planned to seek a majority of seats on Rally\'s nine-member board.    The company said it was " concerned about the announced intent to acquire control of the company" by a Sugarman-led group. ', 'protect', 'wsj_0356.tml']
["   Cilcorp Inc., Peoria, Ill., said it agreed  to acquire the environmental consulting and analytical service businesses of Hunter Environmental Services Inc. of Southport, Conn.    The utility holding company said Hunter  will receive 390,000 shares of a new series of Cilcorp convertible preferred stock with a face value of $39 million for the businesses. Cilcorp  will  also assume $22 million of Hunter's existing debt. As part of the agreement, Cilcorp said it  will pay Hunter $4 million in exchange for agreements not to compete.    Cilcorp said the businesses  to  be acquired had revenue of $76 million for the year ended March 31.    Separately, Cilcorp said it plans  to purchase as many as 1.4 million shares, or 10% of its common stock outstanding from time to time on the open market and through privately negotiated transactions.    The company, which currently has 13.5 million common shares outstanding, said it has no specific plans for the shares. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0346.tml']
['   Pacific First Financial Corp. said shareholders approved its acquisition by Royal Trustco Ltd. of Toronto for $27 a share, or $212 million.    The thrift holding company said it expects  to obtain regulatory approval and complete the transaction by year-end. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0006.tml']
['   Intelogic Trace Inc., San Antonio, Texas, said it bought 2.7 million shares, or about 18%, of its common stock from an unaffiliated shareholder for $3.625 a share, or $9.9 million.    The move boosts Intelogic Chairman Asher Edelman\'s stake to 20% from 16.2% and may help prevent Martin Ackerman from making a run at the computer-services concern. Mr. Ackerman already is seeking to oust Mr. Edelman as chairman of Datapoint Corp., an Intelogic affiliate.    The action followed by one day an Intelogic announcement that it will retain an investment banker to explore alternatives "to maximize shareholder value," including the possible sale of the company.    In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Intelogic shares rose 37.5 cents to close at $2.75.    Mr. Edelman declined to specify what prompted the recent moves, saying they are meant only to benefit shareholders when "the company is on a roll." He added, "This has nothing to do with Marty Ackerman and it is not designed, particularly , to take the company private."    But Mr. Ackerman said the buy-back, and the above-market price paid, prove that Mr. Edelman is running scared. ', 'prevent', 'wsj_0151.tml']
['     The message to the chief of staff was meant to be taken as a suggestionthat Sununu offer to resign, one highly placed source said. Instead, Sununusought to prove to the president that his supporters outnumber his critics andthat he should remain in his post.;   One senior official Monday described theWhite House as "a collection of small groups of aides holding their breaths,"waiting to see whether Sununu survives. One GOP source, reporting on a callfrom the chief of staff to a Republican leader, said Sununu lamented that "thenoose is tightening around my neck, and I need your help.";   Another highlyplaced source said the president\'s son met with Sununu last week after holdinga series of conversations about the structure of the White House staff and ofthe campaign with other Bush loyalists and GOP activists. The source said theyounger Bush "sketched out for Sununu" problems the president is encounteringbecause of the chief of staff\'s tenure.;   "He was told . . . the handwritingwas on the wall," the source said Monday.;   That, the source said, was whenSununu started calling congressional Republicans and asking them to tell Bushthat the conservative wing of the party, in particular, would  object if hewere fired.;   Officials said the president himself met with Sununu Sunday. Asource said the outcome of that session was unclear.  ', 'hold', 'SJMN91-06338157.tml']
["   Crane Co. said it holds an 8.9% stake in Milton Roy Corp., an analytical-instruments maker, and may seek control of the company.    Crane, a maker of engineered products for aerospace, construction, defense and other uses, made the disclosure in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing.    In the filing, Crane said that in the past it considered seeking control of Milton Roy, of St. Petersburg, Fla., through a merger or tender offer and that it expects to continue to evaluate an acquisition from time to time. Crane officials did n't return phone calls seeking comment.    Crane holds 504,200 Milton Roy shares, including 254,200 bought from Sept. 14 to Thursday for $15.50 to $16.75 each. In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday, Milton Roy shares leaped $2, to $18.375 each, while Crane sank $1.125, to $21.125 a share.    John M. McNamara, chief financial officer of Milton Roy, said the company has no comment on Crane's filing.    Milton Roy recently fended off unsolicited overtures from Thermo Electron Corp., a Waltham, Mass., maker of biomedical products. Milton Roy disclosed in May that it was approached for a possible acquisition by Thermo Electron, which agreed to purchase Milton Roy's liquid-chromatography line for $22 million in February. Thermo Electron acquired some 6% of Milton Roy's common stock before throwing in the towel and reducing its stake in early September.    Gabelli Group began raising its Milton Roy stake in July, and holds 14.6%, according to a recent SEC filing. It has n't made merger overtures to the board.    Earlier this month, Milton Roy signed a letter of intent to acquire Automated Custom Systems Inc., Orange, Calif., and its sister operation, Environmental Testing Co., in Aurora, Colo. The companies are automotive-emissions-testing concerns.    Under the terms, Milton Roy will pay an initial $4 million for the operations and additional payments during the next four years based on the earnings performance of the businesses.    In the nine months, Milton Roy earned $6.6 million, or $1.18 a share, on sales of $94.3 million. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0570.tml']
['   Polly Peck International Inc.\'s agreement to acquire 51% of Sansui Electric Co. proves that foreign companies can acquire Japanese companies -- if the alternative for the Japanese company is extinction.    Polly Peck, a fast-growing British conglomerate, will pay 15.6 billion yen ($110 million) for 39 million new shares of Sansui, a well-known maker of high-fidelity audio equipment that failed to adjust to changing market conditions. Japanese government officials, eager to rebut foreign criticism of Japanese investments overseas , hailed the transaction as proof foreigners can make similar investments in Japan. Polly Peck\'s chairman, Asil Nadir, echoed the official Japanese view of the accord, which was announced Friday.    "The myths that Japan is not open to concerns from outside has, I think, been demolished at a stroke," Mr. Nadir said.    But analysts say Sansui is a special case. It expects to post a loss of 6.4 billion yen for the year ending tomorrow and its liabilities currently exceed its assets by about 13.8 billion yen. "If you find sound, healthy companies in Japan, they are not  for sale," said George Watanabe, a management-consultant at Tokyo-based Asia Advisory Services Inc.    Statistics on acquisitions by foreigners vary in detail, because unlike Sansui, which is listed on the Tokyo and Osaka stock exchanges, most of the Japanese companies acquired by foreigners are privately held. But by all accounts foreign companies have bought only a relative handful of Japanese companies this year, while Japanese companies have acquired hundreds of foreign companies.    Nor do analysts expect the Sansui deal to touch off a fresh wave of foreign purchases. If the strong yen and the high stock prices of Japanese companies were n\'t  deterrents enough, webs of cross-shareholdings between friendly Japanese companies and fiercely independent Japanese corporate attitudes repel most would-be acquirers.    Usually when a Japanese company is ready to sell, it has few alternatives remaining, and the grim demeanors of Sansui\'s directors at a joint news conference here left little doubt that this was not  the company\'s finest hour. Sansui was once one of Japan\'s premier makers of expensive, high-quality stereo gear for audiophiles.    But in recent years, the market has moved toward less expensive "mini-component" sets, miniaturized amplifiers and receivers and software players that could be stacked on top of each other.    Some of Sansui\'s fellow audio-specialty companies, such as Aiwa Co. and Pioneer Electric Corp., responded to the challenge by quickly bringing out mini-component products of their own, by moving heavily into the booming compact disk businesses or by diversifying into other consumer-electronics fields, including laser disks or portable cassette players. Sansui was late into the mini-component business and failed to branch into other new businesses.    As the yen soared in recent years, Sansui\'s deepening financial problems became a vicious circle. While competitors moved production offshore in response to the sagging competitiveness of Japanese factories, Sansui lacked the money to build new plants in Southeast Asia. "Our company has not been able to cope very effectively with" changes in the marketplace, said Ryosuke Ito, Sansui\'s president.    But even a Japanese company that looks like a dog may turn out to be a good investment for a foreign concern, some management consultants maintain.    Yoshihisa Murasawa, a management consultant for Booz-Allen amp Hamilton (Japan) Inc., said his firm will likely be recommending acquisitions of Japanese companies more often to foreign clients in the future. "Attitudes {toward being acquired} are still negative, but they\'re becoming more positive," Mr. Murasawa said. "In some industries, like pharmaceuticals, acquisitions make sense."    Whether Polly Peck\'s acquisition makes sense remains to be seen, but at the news conference, Mr. Nadir brimmed with self-confidence that he can turn Sansui around. Sansui, he said, is a perfect fit for Polly Peck\'s electronics operations, which make televisions, videocassette recorders, microwaves and other products on an "original equipment maker" basis for sale under other companies\' brand names.    He said Polly Peck will greatly expand Sansui\'s product line, using Sansui\'s engineers to design the new products, and will move Sansui\'s production of most products other than sophisticated audio gear offshore into Polly Peck\'s own factories.    "Whatever capital it (Sansui) needs so it can compete and become a totally global entity capable of competing with the best in the world, that capital will be injected," Mr. Nadir said.    And while Polly Peck is n\'t jettisoning the existent top-management structure of Sansui, it is bringing in a former Toshiba Corp. executive as executive vice president and chief operating officer.    Such risk taking is an everyday matter for the brash Mr. Nadir, who is 25% owner of Polly Peck as well as its chairman. He took Polly Peck, once a small fabric wholesaler, and used it at as a base to build a conglomerate that has been doubling its profits annually since 1980. In September, it announced plans to acquire the tropical-fruit business of RJR Nabisco Inc.\'s Del Monte foods unit for #557 million ($878 million).    Last month, Polly Peck posted a 38% jump in pretax profit for the first half to #54.8 million from #39.8 million on a 63% rise in sales.    ---   Joann S. Lublin in London contributed to this article. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0583.tml']
['   The bolstered cellular agreement between BellSouth Corp. and LIN Broadcasting Corp. carries heightened risks and could fail to fend off McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the rival suitor for LIN.    Moreover, the amended pact shows how McCaw\'s persistence has pushed LIN and BellSouth into a corner, forcing huge debt on the proposed new company. The debt, estimated at $4.7 billion, could mortgage the cellular company\'s future earning power in order to placate some LIN holders in the short term.    The plan still calls for LIN to combine its cellular telephone properties with BellSouth\'s and to spin off its broadcasting operations. But under new terms of the agreement, announced Friday, LIN holders would receive a special cash dividend of $42 a share, representing a payout of about $2.23 billion, shortly before the proposed merger. LIN said it expects to borrow the money to pay the dividend, but commitments from banks still have n\'t been obtained. Under previous terms, holders would have received a dividend of only $20 a share.    In addition, New York-based LIN would exercise its right to buy out for $1.9 billion the 55% equity interest of its partner, Metromedia Co., in a New York cellular franchise. That money also would have to be borrowed. In effect, McCaw has forced LIN\'s hand by bidding $1.9 billion for the stake earlier this month.    "We\'re taking on more debt than we would have liked to," acknowledged Michael Plouf, LIN\'s vice president and treasurer. Although he expressed confidence that the proposed new company\'s cash flow would be sufficient to cover interest payments on the debt, he estimated that the company would n\'t be profitable until 1994 or later.    Analyst estimate the value of the BellSouth proposal at about $115 to $125 a share. They value McCaw\'s bid at $112 to $118 a share. The previous BellSouth pact was valued at about $98 to $110 a share.    McCaw, the largest provider of cellular telephone service in the U.S., already owns about 9.4% of LIN\'s stock. In response to BellSouth\'s amended pact, the Kirkland, Wash., company extended its own offer to buy 22 million LIN shares for $125 apiece, which would give McCaw a 50.3% controlling interest. Over the weekend, McCaw continued to call for an auction of LIN. Analysts said they expect McCaw to escalate the bidding again.    "This game is n\'t  over yet , " said Joel D. Gross, a vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin amp Jenrette Securities Corp. "At some point, it will become non-economical for one company. But I do n\'t think we\'re at that point yet."    Under its revised proposal, Atlanta-based BellSouth would have a 50% interest in the new cellular company and would be responsible for half of its debt. To sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company. The provision, described as "back-end" protection, would require BellSouth to pay a price equivalent to what an outside party might have to pay.    McCaw\'s bid also has a similar clause. Only McCaw\'s proposal requires the company to begin an auction process in June 1994 for remaining shares at third-party prices.    To mollify shareholders concerned about the long-term value of the company under the BellSouth-LIN agreement, BellSouth also agreed to pay as much as $10 a share, or $540 million, if, after five years, the trading value of the new cellular company isn\'t as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the McCaw offer.    "We\'re very pleased with the new deal. We did n\'t expect BellSouth to be so responsive," said Frederick A. Moran, president of Moran Asset Management Inc., which holds 500,000 LIN shares. BellSouth\'s "back-end protection was flawed previously. We think this is a superior deal to McCaw\'s. We\'re surprised. We did n\'t think a sleeping {Bell} mentality would be willing to take on dilution."    But Kenneth Leon, a telecommunications analyst with Bear, Stearns amp Co., finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed because the company does n\'t have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares. "How many shares will be around in 1995?" he asked. "There\'s nothing preventing BellSouth from buying up shares in the meanwhile."    BellSouth\'s revised proposal surprised many industry analysts, especially because of the company\'s willingness to accept some dilution of future earnings. William O. McCoy, president of the company\'s BellSouth Enterprises Inc. unit, said the revised agreement with LIN would dilute BellSouth earnings by about 9% in both 1990 and 1991 and by significantly less thereafter. Indeed, BellSouth\'s cellular operations were among the first in the country to become profitable.    For 1988, BellSouth earned $1.7 billion, or $3.51 a share, on revenue of $13.6 billion. Analysts were predicting 1990 BellSouth earnings in the range of $3.90 a share, or $1.9 billion, but now those estimates are being scaled back.    In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange, BellSouth shares fell 87.5 cents to $52.125.    In national over-the-counter trading, LIN shares soared $4.625 to closed at $112.625, while McCaw fell $2.50 a share to $37.75.    The proposed BellSouth-LIN cellular company, including the newly acquired Metromedia stake, would give the new entity 55 million potential customers, including about 35 million in the nation\'s top 10 markets.    Mr. Leon of Bear Stearns speculated that McCaw, in an attempt to buy time, might consider filing an antitrust suit against BellSouth with the Justice Department and U.S. District Judge Harold Greene, who oversees enforcement of the consent decree that broke up the Bell system in 1984.    Indeed, McCaw seemed to hint at that option in a brief statement. Urging LIN directors to conduct "a fair auction on a level playing field," McCaw asked how well the public interest would be served "with the Bell operating companies controlling over 94% of all cellular {potential customers} in the nation\'s top 10 markets." ', 'prevent', 'wsj_0584.tml']
['   The bolstered cellular agreement between BellSouth Corp. and LIN Broadcasting Corp. carries heightened risks and could fail to fend off McCaw Cellular Communications Inc., the rival suitor for LIN.    Moreover, the amended pact shows how McCaw\'s persistence has pushed LIN and BellSouth into a corner, forcing huge debt on the proposed new company. The debt, estimated at $4.7 billion, could mortgage the cellular company\'s future earning power in order to placate some LIN holders in the short term.    The plan still calls for LIN to combine its cellular telephone properties with BellSouth\'s and to spin off its broadcasting operations. But under new terms of the agreement, announced Friday, LIN holders would receive a special cash dividend of $42 a share, representing a payout of about $2.23 billion, shortly before the proposed merger. LIN said it expects to borrow the money to pay the dividend, but commitments from banks still have n\'t been obtained. Under previous terms, holders would have received a dividend of only $20 a share.    In addition, New York-based LIN would exercise its right to buy out for $1.9 billion the 55% equity interest of its partner, Metromedia Co., in a New York cellular franchise. That money also would have to be borrowed. In effect, McCaw has forced LIN\'s hand by bidding $1.9 billion for the stake earlier this month.    "We\'re taking on more debt than we would have liked to," acknowledged Michael Plouf, LIN\'s vice president and treasurer. Although he expressed confidence that the proposed new company\'s cash flow would be sufficient to cover interest payments on the debt, he estimated that the company would n\'t be profitable until 1994 or later.    Analyst estimate the value of the BellSouth proposal at about $115 to $125 a share. They value McCaw\'s bid at $112 to $118 a share. The previous BellSouth pact was valued at about $98 to $110 a share.    McCaw, the largest provider of cellular telephone service in the U.S., already owns about 9.4% of LIN\'s stock. In response to BellSouth\'s amended pact, the Kirkland, Wash., company extended its own offer to buy 22 million LIN shares for $125 apiece, which would give McCaw a 50.3% controlling interest. Over the weekend, McCaw continued to call for an auction of LIN. Analysts said they expect McCaw to escalate the bidding again.    "This game is n\'t  over yet , " said Joel D. Gross, a vice president at Donaldson, Lufkin amp Jenrette Securities Corp. "At some point, it will become non-economical for one company. But I do n\'t think we\'re at that point yet."    Under its revised proposal, Atlanta-based BellSouth would have a 50% interest in the new cellular company and would be responsible for half of its debt. To sweeten the pact further -- and to ease concerns of institutional investors -- BellSouth added a provision designed to give extra protection to holders if the regional Bell company ever decides to buy the rest of the new cellular company. The provision, described as "back-end" protection, would require BellSouth to pay a price equivalent to what an outside party might have to pay.    McCaw\'s bid also has a similar clause. Only McCaw\'s proposal requires the company to begin an auction process in June 1994 for remaining shares at third-party prices.    To mollify shareholders concerned about the long-term value of the company under the BellSouth-LIN agreement, BellSouth also agreed to pay as much as $10 a share, or $540 million, if, after five years, the trading value of the new cellular company isn\'t as high as the value that shareholders would have realized from the McCaw offer.    "We\'re very pleased with the new deal. We did n\'t expect BellSouth to be so responsive," said Frederick A. Moran, president of Moran Asset Management Inc., which holds 500,000 LIN shares. BellSouth\'s "back-end protection was flawed previously. We think this is a superior deal to McCaw\'s. We\'re surprised. We did n\'t think a sleeping {Bell} mentality would be willing to take on dilution."    But Kenneth Leon, a telecommunications analyst with Bear, Stearns amp Co., finds the BellSouth proposal still flawed because the company does n\'t have to wait five years to begin buying more LIN shares. "How many shares will be around in 1995?" he asked. "There\'s nothing preventing BellSouth from buying up shares in the meanwhile."    BellSouth\'s revised proposal surprised many industry analysts, especially because of the company\'s willingness to accept some dilution of future earnings. William O. McCoy, president of the company\'s BellSouth Enterprises Inc. unit, said the revised agreement with LIN would dilute BellSouth earnings by about 9% in both 1990 and 1991 and by significantly less thereafter. Indeed, BellSouth\'s cellular operations were among the first in the country to become profitable.    For 1988, BellSouth earned $1.7 billion, or $3.51 a share, on revenue of $13.6 billion. Analysts were predicting 1990 BellSouth earnings in the range of $3.90 a share, or $1.9 billion, but now those estimates are being scaled back.    In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange, BellSouth shares fell 87.5 cents to $52.125.    In national over-the-counter trading, LIN shares soared $4.625 to closed at $112.625, while McCaw fell $2.50 a share to $37.75.    The proposed BellSouth-LIN cellular company, including the newly acquired Metromedia stake, would give the new entity 55 million potential customers, including about 35 million in the nation\'s top 10 markets.    Mr. Leon of Bear Stearns speculated that McCaw, in an attempt to buy time, might consider filing an antitrust suit against BellSouth with the Justice Department and U.S. District Judge Harold Greene, who oversees enforcement of the consent decree that broke up the Bell system in 1984.    Indeed, McCaw seemed to hint at that option in a brief statement. Urging LIN directors to conduct "a fair auction on a level playing field," McCaw asked how well the public interest would be served "with the Bell operating companies controlling over 94% of all cellular {potential customers} in the nation\'s top 10 markets." ', 'hold', 'wsj_0584.tml']
["   Dataproducts Inc. said it filed a lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court to block a tender offer by DPC Acquisition Partners, alleging that the hostile offer violates a standstill agreement between the two concerns.    DPC, an investor group led by New York-based Crescott Investment Associates, had itself filed a suit in state court in Los Angeles seeking to nullify the agreement. Earlier this year, Dataproducts had rejected a $15 a share offer from DPC, saying it was n't adequately financed. DPC last week launched a new, $10-a-share offer for the Woodland Hills, Calif.-based computer printer maker.    DPC said it could n't comment on the suit.", 'block', 'wsj_0471.tml']
["   National Intergroup Inc. said it expects to report a charge of $5.3 million related to the sale of its aluminum unit's extrusion division for the third quarter.    The company said it has agreed to sell the extrusion division for $15 million to R.D. Werner Co., a closely held firm based in Greenville, Pa.    The charge is offset by an after-tax gain of about $30 million in the quarter from the previously announced pact to sell National Aluminum's rolling division.    National Intergroup in the year-ago third quarter earned $22.5 million, or 97 cents a share, including a gain of $18 million from the sale of a steel tube company. Revenue was $778.6 million.    The company also said it continues to explore all options concerning the possible sale of National Aluminum's 54.5% stake in an aluminum smelter in Hawesville, Ky.    The sale of the extrusion division is subject to audit adjustments for working capital changes through the closing.    The agreement also provides for potential payments of additional proceeds to National Aluminum over the next two years, depending on the plant's shipping levels.    The extrusion unit produces bare and painted custom extrusions for building products and construction industries. In fiscal 1989, it had sales of about $40 million and an operating loss of $1.5 million. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0670.tml']
["   Benjamin Franklin Federal Savings amp Loan Association said it plans to restructure in the wake of a third-quarter loss of $7.7 million, or $1.01 a share, reflecting an $11 million addition to loan-loss reserves.    The Portland, Ore., thrift said the restructuring should help it meet new capital standards from the Financial Institution Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act. A year ago, Benjamin Franklin had profit of $1.8 million, or 23 cents a share.    In over-the-counter trading yesterday, Benjamin Franklin rose 25 cents to $4.25.    The company said the restructuring's initial phase will feature a gradual reduction in assets and staff positions. The plan may include selling branches, consolidating or eliminating departments, and winding down or disposing of unprofitable units within 18 months.    Initially, the company said it will close its commercial real-estate lending division, and stop originating new leases at its commercial lease subsidiary.    Details of the restructuring wo n't be made final until regulators approve the regulations mandated by the new federal act, the company said. ", 'stop', 'wsj_1038.tml']
["   DD Acquisition Corp., a partnership of Unicorp Canada Corp.'s Kingsbridge Capital Group and Cara Operations Ltd., extended to Nov. 20 its $45-a-share offer for all Dunkin' Donuts Inc. shares outstanding.    The offer, which was due to expire yesterday, is conditional on 50.1% of Dunkin' common shares, on a fully diluted basis, being tendered and on the withdrawal of the company's poison pill rights plan.    Acquisition has launched a suit in a Delaware court seeking the withdrawal of Dunkin's poison pill rights and employee stock ownership plans, which it claims were put in place to deter bidders. Acquisition said 2.2 million shares, or about 38.5% of the shares outstanding, have been tendered under its offer. The partners said they already hold 15% of all shares outstanding.    Dunkin' has set Nov. 10 as the deadline for the receipt of any competing bids. DD Acquisition said the extension is to allow this process to be completed. Dunkin' is based in Randolph, Mass. Cara, a food services chain operator and Unicorp, a holding company, are based in Toronto. ", 'deter', 'wsj_0159.tml']
["   DD Acquisition Corp., a partnership of Unicorp Canada Corp.'s Kingsbridge Capital Group and Cara Operations Ltd., extended to Nov. 20 its $45-a-share offer for all Dunkin' Donuts Inc. shares outstanding.    The offer, which was due to expire yesterday, is conditional on 50.1% of Dunkin' common shares, on a fully diluted basis, being tendered and on the withdrawal of the company's poison pill rights plan.    Acquisition has launched a suit in a Delaware court seeking the withdrawal of Dunkin's poison pill rights and employee stock ownership plans, which it claims were put in place to deter bidders. Acquisition said 2.2 million shares, or about 38.5% of the shares outstanding, have been tendered under its offer. The partners said they already hold 15% of all shares outstanding.    Dunkin' has set Nov. 10 as the deadline for the receipt of any competing bids. DD Acquisition said the extension is to allow this process to be completed. Dunkin' is based in Randolph, Mass. Cara, a food services chain operator and Unicorp, a holding company, are based in Toronto. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0159.tml']
['   Control Data Corp., which just months ago was hemorrhaging financially , thinks it will be healthy enough soon to consider repurchasing public debt.    Moreover, the company, whose go-it-alone approach nearly proved fatal, now sees alliances with others as the way back to prosperity in what it calls "the data solutions" business.    "I\'m not saying everything is hunky-dory, but we have completed the transition," Robert M. Price, chairman and chief executive, said in an interview. "Transition" is a reference to the company\'s five-year restructuring effort. During that time, Control Data had losses of more than $1 billion.    Now , following asset sales that shrank revenue by more than one-third this year alone, Control Data is flush with cash. So its senior executives are talking openly about possibly buying back some of the company\'s $172.5 million in subordinated convertible debentures next year.    "We\'d like to continue to reduce debt," President Lawrence Perlman said. Noting that the company is offering to buy back $154.2 million in senior notes paying 12 3/4%, he said the response will help determine future debt-reduction efforts. The offer was automatically triggered by the recent sale of Control Data\'s Imprimis disk-drive business to Seagate Technology Inc.    Mr. Perlman, who is also acting chief financial officer and the odds-on favorite to become the next chief executive, said the company is achieving "modest positive cash flow from operations, and we expect that to continue into 1990."    He said the company has no intention of tapping its short-term bank lines "for a good part of 1990." Sometime next year, Control Data will " develop a new bank relationship," Mr. Perlman said. In recent months a group of lenders, led by Bank of America, has extended Control Data up to $90 million in revolving loans through January, as well as $115 million in standby letters of credit.    Loan covenants require that the company achieve specified levels of operating earnings and meet a rolling four-quarter profitability test. Last week Control Data reported third-quarter earnings of $9.8 million, or 23 cents a share, on revenue of $763 million. Through the first nine months, the company had a loss of $484 million, largely reflecting the closing of its supercomputer unit.    While a few assets are still being shopped -- including the sports and entertainment ticketing portion of the company\'s Ticketron unit -- Mr. Price said future restructuring would be a question of strategy. "We do n\'t need the cash."    Ticketron\'s automated wagering business, which operates lotteries in a half dozen states, is not  for sale, the company said. Rather, Mr. Perlman said, Control Data intends to bid for the coming Minnesota lottery contract and is seeking new applications for the technology overseas, where "there is great interest in games of skill." He would n\'t elaborate.    Control Data\'s semiconductor business, VTC Inc., continues to lose money, the executives acknowledged, but they said they consider some of the technology vital to national defense and so are reluctant to dispose of it.    The company\'s strategy for keeping its computer products business profitable -- it recently achieved profitability after several quarters of losses -- calls for a narrow focus and a lid on expenses. Partly, costs will be held down through strategic technology alliances, management said. Control Data recently announced an agreement with MIPS Computer Systems Inc. to jointly develop machines with simplified operating software.    James E. Ousley, computer products group president, said such arrangements could help slash Control Data\'s computer research and development costs in half by the end of 1990. He disclosed that before Control Data scrapped its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer business this past spring, those costs were running at nearly 35% of group revenue. At the same time four of six design projects were spiked, he said.    Asked how the company hopes to expand its computer hardware business, Mr. Ousley said it sees good opportunities in systems integration. "We think we\'re getting only 10% of the integration dollars our customers are spending," he said. "We\'re in environments that are going to spend a lot of money on that."    Control Data mainframes are designed for numerically intensive computing users, such as the scientific, engineering and academic communities. Utilities management is a major commercial niche.    Reviewing the company\'s scrape with disaster, Mr. Price conceded it had tried to do too much on its own. "Absolutely," he said.    But while its stock is selling at about half Control Data\'s estimated breakup value, neither Messrs. Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover. "We\'ve been listed as a candidate for so long it\'s not worth worrying about," said Mr. Price. ', 'keep', 'wsj_0575.tml']
['   Control Data Corp., which just months ago was hemorrhaging financially , thinks it will be healthy enough soon to consider repurchasing public debt.    Moreover, the company, whose go-it-alone approach nearly proved fatal, now sees alliances with others as the way back to prosperity in what it calls "the data solutions" business.    "I\'m not saying everything is hunky-dory, but we have completed the transition," Robert M. Price, chairman and chief executive, said in an interview. "Transition" is a reference to the company\'s five-year restructuring effort. During that time, Control Data had losses of more than $1 billion.    Now , following asset sales that shrank revenue by more than one-third this year alone, Control Data is flush with cash. So its senior executives are talking openly about possibly buying back some of the company\'s $172.5 million in subordinated convertible debentures next year.    "We\'d like to continue to reduce debt," President Lawrence Perlman said. Noting that the company is offering to buy back $154.2 million in senior notes paying 12 3/4%, he said the response will help determine future debt-reduction efforts. The offer was automatically triggered by the recent sale of Control Data\'s Imprimis disk-drive business to Seagate Technology Inc.    Mr. Perlman, who is also acting chief financial officer and the odds-on favorite to become the next chief executive, said the company is achieving "modest positive cash flow from operations, and we expect that to continue into 1990."    He said the company has no intention of tapping its short-term bank lines "for a good part of 1990." Sometime next year, Control Data will " develop a new bank relationship," Mr. Perlman said. In recent months a group of lenders, led by Bank of America, has extended Control Data up to $90 million in revolving loans through January, as well as $115 million in standby letters of credit.    Loan covenants require that the company achieve specified levels of operating earnings and meet a rolling four-quarter profitability test. Last week Control Data reported third-quarter earnings of $9.8 million, or 23 cents a share, on revenue of $763 million. Through the first nine months, the company had a loss of $484 million, largely reflecting the closing of its supercomputer unit.    While a few assets are still being shopped -- including the sports and entertainment ticketing portion of the company\'s Ticketron unit -- Mr. Price said future restructuring would be a question of strategy. "We do n\'t need the cash."    Ticketron\'s automated wagering business, which operates lotteries in a half dozen states, is not  for sale, the company said. Rather, Mr. Perlman said, Control Data intends to bid for the coming Minnesota lottery contract and is seeking new applications for the technology overseas, where "there is great interest in games of skill." He would n\'t elaborate.    Control Data\'s semiconductor business, VTC Inc., continues to lose money, the executives acknowledged, but they said they consider some of the technology vital to national defense and so are reluctant to dispose of it.    The company\'s strategy for keeping its computer products business profitable -- it recently achieved profitability after several quarters of losses -- calls for a narrow focus and a lid on expenses. Partly, costs will be held down through strategic technology alliances, management said. Control Data recently announced an agreement with MIPS Computer Systems Inc. to jointly develop machines with simplified operating software.    James E. Ousley, computer products group president, said such arrangements could help slash Control Data\'s computer research and development costs in half by the end of 1990. He disclosed that before Control Data scrapped its ETA Systems Inc. supercomputer business this past spring, those costs were running at nearly 35% of group revenue. At the same time four of six design projects were spiked, he said.    Asked how the company hopes to expand its computer hardware business, Mr. Ousley said it sees good opportunities in systems integration. "We think we\'re getting only 10% of the integration dollars our customers are spending," he said. "We\'re in environments that are going to spend a lot of money on that."    Control Data mainframes are designed for numerically intensive computing users, such as the scientific, engineering and academic communities. Utilities management is a major commercial niche.    Reviewing the company\'s scrape with disaster, Mr. Price conceded it had tried to do too much on its own. "Absolutely," he said.    But while its stock is selling at about half Control Data\'s estimated breakup value, neither Messrs. Perlman nor Price said he spends much time considering the possibility of a hostile takeover. "We\'ve been listed as a candidate for so long it\'s not worth worrying about," said Mr. Price. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0575.tml']
['   Diversified Investment Group Inc. said it agreed to be acquired by Star States Corp. for stock valued at $13.75 a share, or about $24.4 million.    Diversified, the holding company for Fidelity Federal Savings amp Loan Association, said the agreement also gives Star States the option to acquire 588,300 of Diversified\'s 1,774,326 shares outstanding "under certain circumstances."    The acquisition would give Wilmington, Del.-based Star States access to the Pennsylvania market.    The agreement is subject to regulatory approval and resolution of lawsuits brought by certain Diversified holders in connection with the proposed merger. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0906.tml']
["   Esselte AB, the Stockholm office supplies company, as expected, proposed to acquire the 22% it doesn't own of its U.S. unit, Esselte Business Systems Inc.    The price in the proposal is $43.50 for each of the 4.9 million shares the parent doesn't own, or $213.2 million.    In New York Stock Exchange composite trading, Esselte closed yesterday at $43.50 a share, up $1.    A committee of outside directors for the Garden City, N.Y., unit is evaluating the proposal; the parent asked it to respond by Oct. 31. The unit said it can provide no assurance a transaction will occur.    Esselte AB sold the minority stake five years ago in a $40 million international share offering. The unit, which is the holding company for Esselte's non-Swedish units, accounted for 58% of sales and 71% of operating profit last year.    Separately, Esselte Business Systems reported third-quarter net income fell 5.9% to $9.5 million, or 46 cents a share, from $10.1 million, or 49 cents a share, in the year-ago period. Sales rose 2.9% to $329.2 million from $320 million. ", 'hold', 'wsj_1033.tml']
["   First of America Bank Corp. said it completed its acquisition of Midwest Financial Group Inc. for about $250 million. First of America, which now has 45 banks and $12.5 billion in assets, announced an agreement to acquire the Peoria, Ill., bank holding company in January.    Midwest Financial has $2.3 billion in assets and eight banks. The Midwest Financial subsidiary banks will continue to operate under their current names until early 1990, when each will adopt the First of America name.    Kalamazoo, Mich.-based First of America said it will eliminate the 13 management positions of the former Midwest Financial parent company. First of America said some of the managers will take other jobs with First of America. But it said that severance payments to those executives not staying with the company will reduce First of America's operating results for 1989 by $3 million to $4 million, or 15 cents to 20 cents a share. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0172.tml']
["   First Security Corp. said it tentatively agreed  to acquire Deseret Bancorp. for stock valued at about $18 million.    Terms call for First Security  to issue about 0.55 share of its stock for each Deseret share held, or a total of about 550,000 First Security shares. It has about 12.3 million shares outstanding.    Deseret, with about $100 million in assets, is the parent of the Deseret Bank, which has six offices and headquarters at Pleasant Grove, Utah. The purchase price is equal to about 1.65 times Deseret's roughly $10.7 million book value, or assets less liabilities.    Salt Lake City-based First Security, with $5.4 billion in assets, said the agreement is subject to shareholder and regulatory approval, and that it hopes  to complete the transaction early next year. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0316.tml']
['   Cie. de Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier said his board unanimously rejected as too low the $1.77 billion bid by Cie. Financiere de Paribas to bring its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%.    At a news conference, Mr. Fournier accused Paribas of planning to pay for the takeover by selling parts of the company, whose interests include insurance, banking, tuna canning, sugar and orange juice.    The chairman said his board members, including representatives of West German insurance giant Allianz AG and French banks Credit Lyonnais and Societe Generale, hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital.    Mr. Fournier said that as Navigation Mixte chairman, he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business. But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte, which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday. At the same time, he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying Paribas\'s bid. For the moment, the sources said, he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for Paribas.    Mr. Fournier said Navigation Mixte\'s 1989 unconsolidated, or parent-company, profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs ($754.4 million), up from 633.8 million francs last year. That is due mostly to payments from Allianz for most of the 50% stake it has agreed to acquire in Navigation Mixte\'s insurance business. Mr. Fournier said the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last. If holders avoid tendering to Paribas, he added, they can expect strong dividends again next year.    Analysts noted that over the past 20 years, Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts. This time, however, some analysts think he could face a real battle.    "Without some unexpected "coup de theatre", I do n\'t see what will block the Paribas bid," said Philippe de Cholet, analyst at the brokerage Cholet-Dupont amp Cie. Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier\'s biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid. Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse, a government regulatory agency, but analysts said that is considered likely.    Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas\'s core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987, and said it now holds just under 5% of Paribas\'s shares. Once he realized that Paribas\'s intentions weren\'t friendly, he said, but before the bid was launched, he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%. The petition is still pending, but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.    One big question now is the likely role of Mr. Fournier\'s allies. Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital all strongly support him, but some analysts said they aren\'t so sure. Allianz, for example, has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral. Paribas is Allianz\'s lead French bank.    Paribas said Monday that it intends to bid to boost its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%, from the 18.7% it already owns. The purchase of the additional 48% stake is expected to cost more than 11 billion francs ($1.77 billion).    Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs ($296.95) each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights, and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1, which will receive only partial dividends this year. Alternatively, it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share. The Paribas offer values Navigation Mixte at about 23 billion francs, depending on how many of Navigation Mixte\'s warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle. ', 'prohibit', 'wsj_0810.tml']
['   Cie. de Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier said his board unanimously rejected as too low the $1.77 billion bid by Cie. Financiere de Paribas to bring its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%.    At a news conference, Mr. Fournier accused Paribas of planning to pay for the takeover by selling parts of the company, whose interests include insurance, banking, tuna canning, sugar and orange juice.    The chairman said his board members, including representatives of West German insurance giant Allianz AG and French banks Credit Lyonnais and Societe Generale, hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital.    Mr. Fournier said that as Navigation Mixte chairman, he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business. But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte, which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday. At the same time, he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying Paribas\'s bid. For the moment, the sources said, he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for Paribas.    Mr. Fournier said Navigation Mixte\'s 1989 unconsolidated, or parent-company, profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs ($754.4 million), up from 633.8 million francs last year. That is due mostly to payments from Allianz for most of the 50% stake it has agreed to acquire in Navigation Mixte\'s insurance business. Mr. Fournier said the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last. If holders avoid tendering to Paribas, he added, they can expect strong dividends again next year.    Analysts noted that over the past 20 years, Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts. This time, however, some analysts think he could face a real battle.    "Without some unexpected "coup de theatre", I do n\'t see what will block the Paribas bid," said Philippe de Cholet, analyst at the brokerage Cholet-Dupont amp Cie. Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier\'s biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid. Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse, a government regulatory agency, but analysts said that is considered likely.    Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas\'s core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987, and said it now holds just under 5% of Paribas\'s shares. Once he realized that Paribas\'s intentions weren\'t friendly, he said, but before the bid was launched, he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%. The petition is still pending, but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.    One big question now is the likely role of Mr. Fournier\'s allies. Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital all strongly support him, but some analysts said they aren\'t so sure. Allianz, for example, has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral. Paribas is Allianz\'s lead French bank.    Paribas said Monday that it intends to bid to boost its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%, from the 18.7% it already owns. The purchase of the additional 48% stake is expected to cost more than 11 billion francs ($1.77 billion).    Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs ($296.95) each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights, and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1, which will receive only partial dividends this year. Alternatively, it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share. The Paribas offer values Navigation Mixte at about 23 billion francs, depending on how many of Navigation Mixte\'s warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle. ', 'block', 'wsj_0810.tml']
['   Cie. de Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier said his board unanimously rejected as too low the $1.77 billion bid by Cie. Financiere de Paribas to bring its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%.    At a news conference, Mr. Fournier accused Paribas of planning to pay for the takeover by selling parts of the company, whose interests include insurance, banking, tuna canning, sugar and orange juice.    The chairman said his board members, including representatives of West German insurance giant Allianz AG and French banks Credit Lyonnais and Societe Generale, hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital.    Mr. Fournier said that as Navigation Mixte chairman, he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business. But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte, which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday. At the same time, he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying Paribas\'s bid. For the moment, the sources said, he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for Paribas.    Mr. Fournier said Navigation Mixte\'s 1989 unconsolidated, or parent-company, profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs ($754.4 million), up from 633.8 million francs last year. That is due mostly to payments from Allianz for most of the 50% stake it has agreed to acquire in Navigation Mixte\'s insurance business. Mr. Fournier said the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last. If holders avoid tendering to Paribas, he added, they can expect strong dividends again next year.    Analysts noted that over the past 20 years, Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts. This time, however, some analysts think he could face a real battle.    "Without some unexpected "coup de theatre", I do n\'t see what will block the Paribas bid," said Philippe de Cholet, analyst at the brokerage Cholet-Dupont amp Cie. Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier\'s biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid. Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse, a government regulatory agency, but analysts said that is considered likely.    Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas\'s core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987, and said it now holds just under 5% of Paribas\'s shares. Once he realized that Paribas\'s intentions weren\'t friendly, he said, but before the bid was launched, he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%. The petition is still pending, but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.    One big question now is the likely role of Mr. Fournier\'s allies. Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital all strongly support him, but some analysts said they aren\'t so sure. Allianz, for example, has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral. Paribas is Allianz\'s lead French bank.    Paribas said Monday that it intends to bid to boost its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%, from the 18.7% it already owns. The purchase of the additional 48% stake is expected to cost more than 11 billion francs ($1.77 billion).    Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs ($296.95) each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights, and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1, which will receive only partial dividends this year. Alternatively, it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share. The Paribas offer values Navigation Mixte at about 23 billion francs, depending on how many of Navigation Mixte\'s warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0810.tml']
['   Cie. de Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier said his board unanimously rejected as too low the $1.77 billion bid by Cie. Financiere de Paribas to bring its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%.    At a news conference, Mr. Fournier accused Paribas of planning to pay for the takeover by selling parts of the company, whose interests include insurance, banking, tuna canning, sugar and orange juice.    The chairman said his board members, including representatives of West German insurance giant Allianz AG and French banks Credit Lyonnais and Societe Generale, hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital.    Mr. Fournier said that as Navigation Mixte chairman, he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business. But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte, which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday. At the same time, he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying Paribas\'s bid. For the moment, the sources said, he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for Paribas.    Mr. Fournier said Navigation Mixte\'s 1989 unconsolidated, or parent-company, profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs ($754.4 million), up from 633.8 million francs last year. That is due mostly to payments from Allianz for most of the 50% stake it has agreed to acquire in Navigation Mixte\'s insurance business. Mr. Fournier said the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last. If holders avoid tendering to Paribas, he added, they can expect strong dividends again next year.    Analysts noted that over the past 20 years, Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts. This time, however, some analysts think he could face a real battle.    "Without some unexpected "coup de theatre", I do n\'t see what will block the Paribas bid," said Philippe de Cholet, analyst at the brokerage Cholet-Dupont amp Cie. Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier\'s biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid. Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse, a government regulatory agency, but analysts said that is considered likely.    Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas\'s core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987, and said it now holds just under 5% of Paribas\'s shares. Once he realized that Paribas\'s intentions weren\'t friendly, he said, but before the bid was launched, he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%. The petition is still pending, but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.    One big question now is the likely role of Mr. Fournier\'s allies. Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital all strongly support him, but some analysts said they aren\'t so sure. Allianz, for example, has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral. Paribas is Allianz\'s lead French bank.    Paribas said Monday that it intends to bid to boost its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%, from the 18.7% it already owns. The purchase of the additional 48% stake is expected to cost more than 11 billion francs ($1.77 billion).    Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs ($296.95) each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights, and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1, which will receive only partial dividends this year. Alternatively, it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share. The Paribas offer values Navigation Mixte at about 23 billion francs, depending on how many of Navigation Mixte\'s warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle. ', 'avoid', 'wsj_0810.tml']
['   The White House said President Bush  has approved duty-free treatment for imports of certain types of watches that are n\'t produced in "significant quantities" in the U.S., the Virgin Islands and other U.S. possessions.    The action came in response to a petition filed by Timex Inc. for changes in the U.S. Generalized System of Preferences for imports from developing nations. Previously , watch imports  were denied such duty-free treatment.    Timex  had requested duty-free treatment for many types of watches, covered by 58 different U.S. tariff classifications. The White House said Mr. Bush decided  to grant duty-free status for 18 categories, but turned down such treatment for other types of watches "because of the potential for material injury  to watch producers located in the U.S. and the Virgin Islands."    Timex is a major U.S. producer and seller of watches, including low-priced battery-operated watches assembled in the Philippines and other developing nations covered by the U.S. tariff preferences.    U.S. trade officials said the Philippines and Thailand would be the main beneficiaries of the president\'s action.    Imports of the types of watches that now will be eligible for duty-free treatment totaled about $37.3 million in 1988, a relatively small share of the $1.5 billion in U.S. watch imports that year, according to an aide to U.S. Trade Representative Carla Hills. ', 'deny', 'wsj_0026.tml']
['   RJR Nabisco Inc. said it agreed to sell its Baby Ruth, Butterfinger and Pearson candy businesses to Nestle S.A.\'s Nestle Foods unit for $370 million.    The sale, at a higher price than some analysts had expected, helps the food and tobacco giant raise funds to pay debt and boosts Nestle\'s 7% share of the U.S. candy market to about 12%.    The candy businesses had sales of about $154 million last year, which was roughly 12% of total revenue for RJR\'s Planters LifeSavers unit, according to a memorandum distributed by RJR\'s owner, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts amp Co., to bankers last December.    The Nestle acquisition includes a candy plant in Franklin Park, Ill., which employs about 800 workers.    The sale, which had been expected, is part of KKR\'s program to pay down $5 billion of a $6 billion bridge loan by February. Roughly $2 billion of that debt has already been repaid from previous asset sales, and RJR expects to use another $2 billion from the pending, two-part sale of most of its Del Monte unit. That sale, however , could still fall through if financing problems develop. Thus, it remains crucial for RJR to obtain top dollar for its smaller assets like the candy brands.    Louis Gerstner Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of New York-based RJR, called the sale a "significant step" in the company\'s divestiture program, as well as a "a strategic divestiture." Since KKR bought RJR in February for $25 billion of debt, it has agreed to sell nearly $5 billion of RJR assets. RJR\'s executives have said they will dispense with certain brands, in particular, that are n\'t  leaders in their markets. "RJR Nabisco and Planters LifeSavers will concentrate more on our own core businesses," Mr. Gerstner said Friday.    Baby Ruth and Butterfinger are both among the top-selling 15 chocolate bars in the U.S., but RJR\'s overall share of the roughly $5.1 billion market is less than 5%. Nestle\'s share of 7% before Friday\'s purchases is far below the shares of market leaders Hershey Foods Corp. and Mars Inc., which have about 40% and 36% of the market, respectively.    "This means Nestle is now in the candybar business in a big way," said Lisbeth Echeandia, publisher of Orlando, Fla.-based Confectioner Magazine. "For them, it makes all kinds of sense. They\'ve been given a mandate from Switzerland" to expand their U.S. chocolate operations. Nestle S.A. is based in Vevey, Switzerland.    The new candy bars, "make an important contribution to our Nestle Foods commitment to this very important strategic unit," said C. Alan MacDonald, president of Nestle Foods in Purchase, N.Y. ', 'bar', 'wsj_0557.tml']
['   Two rival bidders for Connaught BioSciences extended their offers to acquire the Toronto-based vaccine manufacturer Friday.    Institut Merieux S.A., which offered 942 million Canadian dollars (US$801.2 million), or C$37 a share for Connaught, said it would extend its bid, due to expire last Thursday, to Nov. 6.    A C$30-a-share bid by Ciba-Geigy Ltd., a pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland, and California-based Chiron Corp., a bioresearch concern, was extended to Nov. 16. It had been due to expire Friday evening.    Merieux previously said it would ensure its bid remained open pending a final decision by Canadian regulators on whether to approve the takeover. Merieux, a vaccine and bioresearch firm based in Lyon, France, is controlled 50.1% by state-owned Rhone Poulenc S.A.    The Canadian government previously said Merieux\'s bid did n\'t offer enough "net benefit" to Canada to be approved, and gave Merieux an until mid-November to submit additional information.    Merieux officials said last week that they are "highly confident" the offer will be approved once it submits details of its proposed investments to federal regulators.    Both offers are conditional on regulatory approvals and enough shares being tendered to give the bidders a majority of Connaught\'s shares outstanding.    Institut Merieux, which already holds a 12.5% stake in Connaught, said that at the close of business Thursday, 5,745,188 shares of Connaught and C$44.3 million face amount of debentures, convertible into 1,826,596 common shares, had been tendered to its offer. At the close of business Thursday, Ciba-Geigy and Chiron said 11,580 common shares had been tendered to their offer. At last report, Connaught had 21.8 million shares outstanding.    Separately, the Ontario Supreme Court said it will postpone indefinitely a ruling on the lawsuit launched by the University of Toronto against Connaught in connection with the Merieux bid.    In a statement prepared by lawyers for the university and Connaught, the parties said they agreed that as a result of reaching a C415 million research accord, "It is unnecessary that there be a judgment on the merits {of the case} at this time."    Lawyers for the two sides weren\'t immediately available for comment.    The university had sought an injunction blocking Connaught\'s board from recommending or supporting an offer for the company by Merieux. ', 'block', 'wsj_0533.tml']
['   Two rival bidders for Connaught BioSciences extended their offers to acquire the Toronto-based vaccine manufacturer Friday.    Institut Merieux S.A., which offered 942 million Canadian dollars (US$801.2 million), or C$37 a share for Connaught, said it would extend its bid, due to expire last Thursday, to Nov. 6.    A C$30-a-share bid by Ciba-Geigy Ltd., a pharmaceutical company based in Basel, Switzerland, and California-based Chiron Corp., a bioresearch concern, was extended to Nov. 16. It had been due to expire Friday evening.    Merieux previously said it would ensure its bid remained open pending a final decision by Canadian regulators on whether to approve the takeover. Merieux, a vaccine and bioresearch firm based in Lyon, France, is controlled 50.1% by state-owned Rhone Poulenc S.A.    The Canadian government previously said Merieux\'s bid did n\'t offer enough "net benefit" to Canada to be approved, and gave Merieux an until mid-November to submit additional information.    Merieux officials said last week that they are "highly confident" the offer will be approved once it submits details of its proposed investments to federal regulators.    Both offers are conditional on regulatory approvals and enough shares being tendered to give the bidders a majority of Connaught\'s shares outstanding.    Institut Merieux, which already holds a 12.5% stake in Connaught, said that at the close of business Thursday, 5,745,188 shares of Connaught and C$44.3 million face amount of debentures, convertible into 1,826,596 common shares, had been tendered to its offer. At the close of business Thursday, Ciba-Geigy and Chiron said 11,580 common shares had been tendered to their offer. At last report, Connaught had 21.8 million shares outstanding.    Separately, the Ontario Supreme Court said it will postpone indefinitely a ruling on the lawsuit launched by the University of Toronto against Connaught in connection with the Merieux bid.    In a statement prepared by lawyers for the university and Connaught, the parties said they agreed that as a result of reaching a C415 million research accord, "It is unnecessary that there be a judgment on the merits {of the case} at this time."    Lawyers for the two sides weren\'t immediately available for comment.    The university had sought an injunction blocking Connaught\'s board from recommending or supporting an offer for the company by Merieux. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0533.tml']
["   A group of investors led by Giant Group Ltd. and its chairman, Burt Sugarman, said it filed with federal antitrust regulators for clearance to buy more than 50% of the stock of Rally's Inc., a fast-food company based in Louisville, Ky.    Rally's operates and franchises about 160 fast-food restaurants throughout the U.S. The company went public earlier this month, offering 1,745,000 shares of common stock at $15 a share. Giant has interests in cement making and newsprint.    The investor group includes Restaurant Investment Partnership, a California general partnership, and three Rally's directors: Mr. Sugarman, James M. Trotter III and William E. Trotter II. The group currently holds 3,027,330 Rally's shares, or 45.2% of its commmon shares outstanding. Giant Group owned 22% of Rally's shares before the initial public offering.    A second group of three company directors, aligned with Rally's founder James Patterson, also is seeking control of the fast-food chain. It is estimated that the Patterson group controls more than 40% of Rally's stock.    Rally officials weren't available to comment late yesterday.    For the year ended July 2, Rally had net income of $2.4 million, or 34 cents a share, on revenue of $52.9 million. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0695.tml']
['   Jim Pattison Industries Ltd., one of a group of closely held companies owned by entrepreneur James Pattison, said it "intends to seek control" of 30%-owned Innopac Inc., a Toronto packaging concern.    Jim Pattison Industries, a holding company with annual sales of about C$1.9 billion, largely from car dealerships and grocery stores, did n\'t elaborate on the statement, and a company official declined further comment.    The company said it currently holds about 4.2 million of Innopac\'s 13.8 million common shares outstanding, which have an aggregate market value of about 137.8 million Canadian dollars (US$117.3 million).    Separately, Innopac reported a fourth-quarter loss of about C$2.6 million, or 18 Canadian cents a share, reflecting inventory write-downs. The results made net income for the year ended Aug. 31 C$2.7 million, or 20 Canadian cents a share, down from C$9.7 million, or 70 Canadian cents a share last year. Revenue was C$291.6 million, up from C$252 million in 1988.    Martin Fabi, Innopac\'s president and chief executive, said Innopac viewed Mr. Pattison\'s decision to seek control as a "very positive" move. "I\'m happy that he feels positively about our company," he said. Mr. Fabi wouldn\'t say directly whether Mr. Pattison has disclosed potential terms for his planned bid for control.    Among other things, Innopac is involved in recycling polystyrene foam products that are often used by fast food chains, such as McDonald\'s Corp., for food packaging. A joint venture involving units of Innopac and Mobil Corp. earlier this year opened the first U.S. polystyrene recycling plant, in Leominster, Mass. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0674.tml']
["   Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudiborder, today sought peace on another front by promising towithdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers capturedduring the Iran-Iraq war.   Also today, King Hussein of Jordan arrived in Washington seekingto mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. President Bush on Tuesday saidthe United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's RedSea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route.   In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it hadsent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to includeBaghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be allowed to leave Iraq.   President Bush today denounced Saddam's ``ruinous policies ofwar,'' and said the United States is ``striking a blow for theprinciple that might does not make right.''   In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, Bush seemed to suggestthat American forces could be in the gulf region for some time.``No one should doubt our staying power or determination,'' he said.   The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at feverpace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force campedout in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust byIraq.   In a letter to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, read by abroadcaster over Baghdad radio, Saddam said he will beginwithdrawing troops from Iranian territory on Friday and releaseIranian prisoners of war.   Iran said an Iraqi diplomatic delegation was en route to Tehranto deliver Saddam's message, which it said it would review ``withoptimism.''   Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he hadrejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of theeight-year war with Iran.   The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran,which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 but alsocriticized the multinational force dispatched to Saudi Arabia.   Saddam said he sought to ``turn the gulf into a lake of peacefree of foreign fleets and forces that harbor ill intentionsagainst us.''   In other developments:   _The Pentagon said that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney isconsidering urging Bush to order a national callup of armed forcesreserves for active duty because of the drain on units sendingsoldiers abroad. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to180 days without seeking congressional approval.   _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said specialambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with thegovernments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries.Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations,is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regularnews briefing today.   _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraqand Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-richsultanate.   The Iraqi ambassador to Greece said in Athens the Americans andother stranded foreigners could leave ``as soon as the threats fromthe United States and its allies are eliminated.'' ABC quoted anIraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans inIraq are ``restrictees'' who will stay there until the crisis ends.   _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Spokesman YuriGremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling inBaghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heatand lack of transportation.   Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands offoreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road routethrough Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border.   _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwaitappear to be deteriorating. There have been reports of wholesalelooting but food and gasoline were still available, said aspokesman, who by custom was not identified. Banks remained closed.   _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraqwould retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel membersif they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blockedsupplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now ``annexed,'' Iraqhas control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. A steep risein world oil prices followed the Kuwait invasion.   The U.N. Security Council on Aug. 6 ordered a global embargo ontrade with Iraq as punishment for seizing Kuwait. Bush then sentU.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massednearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves.   Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protectSaudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arrivingTuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudicapital.   Egyptian and Moroccan troops are already there.   The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today itstroops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. The size ofthe contingent was not disclosed.   Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oiloutlets through those countries, but according to Jordanianofficials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating.   Truckloads of goods rolled into Iraq from Jordan on Tuesday andIraqi-bound cargo was unloaded from ships at the Red Sea portofAqaba despite the U.N.-ordered sanctions.   King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush fromIraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The monarch will meetBush on Thursday in Kennebunkport, Maine.   Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and politicaladviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to becarrying. In an interview from Jordan on ABC, he declined todiscuss details, but said: ``I don't think that his majesty wouldbe traveling at this crucial moment if the Iraqi leadership did nothave a rational approach to the future.''   A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources saidthat Saddam's message called for an international conference to beconvened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. In exchange,the buildup of U.S. forces in the region would halt. Bush, however,says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to thegulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam towithdraw his army.   Bush held out the prospect of more aid to Jordan if itcooperates with the trade embargo.   On Tuesday, the United States and Soviet Union conferred inWashington on putting an anti-Iraq naval blockade under a UnitedNations umbrella.   The United States has provided most of the naval vessels so farto block Iraqi trade, with Britain, West Germany and Australiaamong the other nations lending support at sea.   The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exportsof oil and imports of food and military supplies. Iraq importsabout three-quarters of its foodstuffs.   U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that theSecurity Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorizesuch a naval operation.   Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricadenow in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba ``if it is a holethrough which commerce flows'' in and out of Iraq.   In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of ``Desert Shield,''the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqisoldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq boasts an army of 1 million members.At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to DesertShield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces,paratroopers and infantry.   Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil andmoney. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oilrevenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among othercharges.   Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million.", 'hamper', 'AP900815-0044.tml']
["   Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudiborder, today sought peace on another front by promising towithdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers capturedduring the Iran-Iraq war.   Also today, King Hussein of Jordan arrived in Washington seekingto mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. President Bush on Tuesday saidthe United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's RedSea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route.   In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it hadsent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to includeBaghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be allowed to leave Iraq.   President Bush today denounced Saddam's ``ruinous policies ofwar,'' and said the United States is ``striking a blow for theprinciple that might does not make right.''   In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, Bush seemed to suggestthat American forces could be in the gulf region for some time.``No one should doubt our staying power or determination,'' he said.   The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at feverpace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force campedout in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust byIraq.   In a letter to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, read by abroadcaster over Baghdad radio, Saddam said he will beginwithdrawing troops from Iranian territory on Friday and releaseIranian prisoners of war.   Iran said an Iraqi diplomatic delegation was en route to Tehranto deliver Saddam's message, which it said it would review ``withoptimism.''   Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he hadrejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of theeight-year war with Iran.   The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran,which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 but alsocriticized the multinational force dispatched to Saudi Arabia.   Saddam said he sought to ``turn the gulf into a lake of peacefree of foreign fleets and forces that harbor ill intentionsagainst us.''   In other developments:   _The Pentagon said that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney isconsidering urging Bush to order a national callup of armed forcesreserves for active duty because of the drain on units sendingsoldiers abroad. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to180 days without seeking congressional approval.   _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said specialambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with thegovernments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries.Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations,is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regularnews briefing today.   _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraqand Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-richsultanate.   The Iraqi ambassador to Greece said in Athens the Americans andother stranded foreigners could leave ``as soon as the threats fromthe United States and its allies are eliminated.'' ABC quoted anIraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans inIraq are ``restrictees'' who will stay there until the crisis ends.   _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Spokesman YuriGremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling inBaghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heatand lack of transportation.   Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands offoreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road routethrough Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border.   _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwaitappear to be deteriorating. There have been reports of wholesalelooting but food and gasoline were still available, said aspokesman, who by custom was not identified. Banks remained closed.   _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraqwould retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel membersif they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blockedsupplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now ``annexed,'' Iraqhas control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. A steep risein world oil prices followed the Kuwait invasion.   The U.N. Security Council on Aug. 6 ordered a global embargo ontrade with Iraq as punishment for seizing Kuwait. Bush then sentU.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massednearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves.   Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protectSaudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arrivingTuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudicapital.   Egyptian and Moroccan troops are already there.   The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today itstroops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. The size ofthe contingent was not disclosed.   Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oiloutlets through those countries, but according to Jordanianofficials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating.   Truckloads of goods rolled into Iraq from Jordan on Tuesday andIraqi-bound cargo was unloaded from ships at the Red Sea portofAqaba despite the U.N.-ordered sanctions.   King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush fromIraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The monarch will meetBush on Thursday in Kennebunkport, Maine.   Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and politicaladviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to becarrying. In an interview from Jordan on ABC, he declined todiscuss details, but said: ``I don't think that his majesty wouldbe traveling at this crucial moment if the Iraqi leadership did nothave a rational approach to the future.''   A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources saidthat Saddam's message called for an international conference to beconvened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. In exchange,the buildup of U.S. forces in the region would halt. Bush, however,says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to thegulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam towithdraw his army.   Bush held out the prospect of more aid to Jordan if itcooperates with the trade embargo.   On Tuesday, the United States and Soviet Union conferred inWashington on putting an anti-Iraq naval blockade under a UnitedNations umbrella.   The United States has provided most of the naval vessels so farto block Iraqi trade, with Britain, West Germany and Australiaamong the other nations lending support at sea.   The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exportsof oil and imports of food and military supplies. Iraq importsabout three-quarters of its foodstuffs.   U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that theSecurity Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorizesuch a naval operation.   Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricadenow in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba ``if it is a holethrough which commerce flows'' in and out of Iraq.   In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of ``Desert Shield,''the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqisoldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq boasts an army of 1 million members.At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to DesertShield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces,paratroopers and infantry.   Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil andmoney. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oilrevenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among othercharges.   Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million.", 'stop', 'AP900815-0044.tml']
["   Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudiborder, today sought peace on another front by promising towithdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers capturedduring the Iran-Iraq war.   Also today, King Hussein of Jordan arrived in Washington seekingto mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. President Bush on Tuesday saidthe United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's RedSea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route.   In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it hadsent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to includeBaghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be allowed to leave Iraq.   President Bush today denounced Saddam's ``ruinous policies ofwar,'' and said the United States is ``striking a blow for theprinciple that might does not make right.''   In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, Bush seemed to suggestthat American forces could be in the gulf region for some time.``No one should doubt our staying power or determination,'' he said.   The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at feverpace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force campedout in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust byIraq.   In a letter to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, read by abroadcaster over Baghdad radio, Saddam said he will beginwithdrawing troops from Iranian territory on Friday and releaseIranian prisoners of war.   Iran said an Iraqi diplomatic delegation was en route to Tehranto deliver Saddam's message, which it said it would review ``withoptimism.''   Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he hadrejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of theeight-year war with Iran.   The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran,which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 but alsocriticized the multinational force dispatched to Saudi Arabia.   Saddam said he sought to ``turn the gulf into a lake of peacefree of foreign fleets and forces that harbor ill intentionsagainst us.''   In other developments:   _The Pentagon said that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney isconsidering urging Bush to order a national callup of armed forcesreserves for active duty because of the drain on units sendingsoldiers abroad. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to180 days without seeking congressional approval.   _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said specialambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with thegovernments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries.Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations,is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regularnews briefing today.   _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraqand Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-richsultanate.   The Iraqi ambassador to Greece said in Athens the Americans andother stranded foreigners could leave ``as soon as the threats fromthe United States and its allies are eliminated.'' ABC quoted anIraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans inIraq are ``restrictees'' who will stay there until the crisis ends.   _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Spokesman YuriGremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling inBaghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heatand lack of transportation.   Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands offoreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road routethrough Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border.   _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwaitappear to be deteriorating. There have been reports of wholesalelooting but food and gasoline were still available, said aspokesman, who by custom was not identified. Banks remained closed.   _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraqwould retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel membersif they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blockedsupplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now ``annexed,'' Iraqhas control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. A steep risein world oil prices followed the Kuwait invasion.   The U.N. Security Council on Aug. 6 ordered a global embargo ontrade with Iraq as punishment for seizing Kuwait. Bush then sentU.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massednearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves.   Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protectSaudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arrivingTuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudicapital.   Egyptian and Moroccan troops are already there.   The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today itstroops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. The size ofthe contingent was not disclosed.   Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oiloutlets through those countries, but according to Jordanianofficials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating.   Truckloads of goods rolled into Iraq from Jordan on Tuesday andIraqi-bound cargo was unloaded from ships at the Red Sea portofAqaba despite the U.N.-ordered sanctions.   King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush fromIraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The monarch will meetBush on Thursday in Kennebunkport, Maine.   Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and politicaladviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to becarrying. In an interview from Jordan on ABC, he declined todiscuss details, but said: ``I don't think that his majesty wouldbe traveling at this crucial moment if the Iraqi leadership did nothave a rational approach to the future.''   A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources saidthat Saddam's message called for an international conference to beconvened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. In exchange,the buildup of U.S. forces in the region would halt. Bush, however,says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to thegulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam towithdraw his army.   Bush held out the prospect of more aid to Jordan if itcooperates with the trade embargo.   On Tuesday, the United States and Soviet Union conferred inWashington on putting an anti-Iraq naval blockade under a UnitedNations umbrella.   The United States has provided most of the naval vessels so farto block Iraqi trade, with Britain, West Germany and Australiaamong the other nations lending support at sea.   The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exportsof oil and imports of food and military supplies. Iraq importsabout three-quarters of its foodstuffs.   U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that theSecurity Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorizesuch a naval operation.   Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricadenow in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba ``if it is a holethrough which commerce flows'' in and out of Iraq.   In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of ``Desert Shield,''the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqisoldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq boasts an army of 1 million members.At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to DesertShield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces,paratroopers and infantry.   Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil andmoney. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oilrevenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among othercharges.   Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million.", 'block', 'AP900815-0044.tml']
["   Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudiborder, today sought peace on another front by promising towithdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers capturedduring the Iran-Iraq war.   Also today, King Hussein of Jordan arrived in Washington seekingto mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. President Bush on Tuesday saidthe United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's RedSea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route.   In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it hadsent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to includeBaghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be allowed to leave Iraq.   President Bush today denounced Saddam's ``ruinous policies ofwar,'' and said the United States is ``striking a blow for theprinciple that might does not make right.''   In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, Bush seemed to suggestthat American forces could be in the gulf region for some time.``No one should doubt our staying power or determination,'' he said.   The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at feverpace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force campedout in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust byIraq.   In a letter to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, read by abroadcaster over Baghdad radio, Saddam said he will beginwithdrawing troops from Iranian territory on Friday and releaseIranian prisoners of war.   Iran said an Iraqi diplomatic delegation was en route to Tehranto deliver Saddam's message, which it said it would review ``withoptimism.''   Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he hadrejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of theeight-year war with Iran.   The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran,which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 but alsocriticized the multinational force dispatched to Saudi Arabia.   Saddam said he sought to ``turn the gulf into a lake of peacefree of foreign fleets and forces that harbor ill intentionsagainst us.''   In other developments:   _The Pentagon said that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney isconsidering urging Bush to order a national callup of armed forcesreserves for active duty because of the drain on units sendingsoldiers abroad. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to180 days without seeking congressional approval.   _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said specialambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with thegovernments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries.Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations,is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regularnews briefing today.   _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraqand Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-richsultanate.   The Iraqi ambassador to Greece said in Athens the Americans andother stranded foreigners could leave ``as soon as the threats fromthe United States and its allies are eliminated.'' ABC quoted anIraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans inIraq are ``restrictees'' who will stay there until the crisis ends.   _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Spokesman YuriGremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling inBaghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heatand lack of transportation.   Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands offoreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road routethrough Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border.   _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwaitappear to be deteriorating. There have been reports of wholesalelooting but food and gasoline were still available, said aspokesman, who by custom was not identified. Banks remained closed.   _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraqwould retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel membersif they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blockedsupplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now ``annexed,'' Iraqhas control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. A steep risein world oil prices followed the Kuwait invasion.   The U.N. Security Council on Aug. 6 ordered a global embargo ontrade with Iraq as punishment for seizing Kuwait. Bush then sentU.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massednearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves.   Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protectSaudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arrivingTuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudicapital.   Egyptian and Moroccan troops are already there.   The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today itstroops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. The size ofthe contingent was not disclosed.   Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oiloutlets through those countries, but according to Jordanianofficials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating.   Truckloads of goods rolled into Iraq from Jordan on Tuesday andIraqi-bound cargo was unloaded from ships at the Red Sea portofAqaba despite the U.N.-ordered sanctions.   King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush fromIraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The monarch will meetBush on Thursday in Kennebunkport, Maine.   Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and politicaladviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to becarrying. In an interview from Jordan on ABC, he declined todiscuss details, but said: ``I don't think that his majesty wouldbe traveling at this crucial moment if the Iraqi leadership did nothave a rational approach to the future.''   A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources saidthat Saddam's message called for an international conference to beconvened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. In exchange,the buildup of U.S. forces in the region would halt. Bush, however,says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to thegulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam towithdraw his army.   Bush held out the prospect of more aid to Jordan if itcooperates with the trade embargo.   On Tuesday, the United States and Soviet Union conferred inWashington on putting an anti-Iraq naval blockade under a UnitedNations umbrella.   The United States has provided most of the naval vessels so farto block Iraqi trade, with Britain, West Germany and Australiaamong the other nations lending support at sea.   The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exportsof oil and imports of food and military supplies. Iraq importsabout three-quarters of its foodstuffs.   U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that theSecurity Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorizesuch a naval operation.   Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricadenow in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba ``if it is a holethrough which commerce flows'' in and out of Iraq.   In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of ``Desert Shield,''the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqisoldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq boasts an army of 1 million members.At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to DesertShield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces,paratroopers and infantry.   Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil andmoney. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oilrevenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among othercharges.   Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million.", 'hold', 'AP900815-0044.tml']
['   Hewlett-Packard Co. said it raised its stake in Octel Communications Corp. to 8.5% of the common shares outstanding.    In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Hewlett-Packard said it now holds 1,384,119 Octel common shares, including 100,000 shares bought from Aug. 26 to Oct. 20 for $23.31 to $24.25 a share.    Hewlett-Packard, a Palo Alto, Calif., computer company, said it acquired the stock "to develop and maintain a strategic partnership in which each company remains independent while working together to market and sell their products."    Octel said the purchase was expected. Hewlett-Packard affirmed it does n\'t plan to obtain control of Octel, a Milpitas, Calif., maker of voice-processing systems.    According to the filing, Hewlett-Packard acquired 730,070 common shares from Octel as a result of an Aug. 10, 1988, stock purchase agreement. That accord also called for Hewlett-Packard to buy 730,070 Octel shares in the open market within 18 months. In addition, Hewlett-Packard acquired a two-year option to buy an extra 10%, of which half may be sold directly to Hewlett-Packard by Octel. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0679.tml']
['   Billions of investors\' dollars are pouring out of the nation\'s junk-bond mutual funds, undermining a pillar of support in the already reeling junk market.    Last week alone, an eye-popping $1.6 billion flowed out of the junk funds, or nearly 5% of their total assets, according to estimates by Dalbar Financial Services Inc., a Boston research firm.    In the past two months the nation\'s 88 junk funds have lost a total of about $6 billion -- more than 15% of assets -- through sales or transfers of junk-fund shares, Dalbar says. It made the estimates based on data collected from more than a dozen big junk funds.    Interviews with three major fund groups -- Fidelity Investments, Vanguard Group Inc. and T. Rowe Price Associates Inc. -- confirm the trend. Their junk funds combined have had net outflows totaling nearly $500 million, or about 13% of their junk fund assets, in the past two months.    Some fund managers say negative publicity has exacerbated investors\' concern about recent declines in junk-bond prices. "People have been seeing headline after headline after headline and saying: `I ca n\'t take it anymore -- I\'m getting out,\'" says Kurt Brouwer of Brouwer amp Janachowski, a San Francisco investment adviser.    The withdrawals could spell trouble for the $200 billion junk market. If the heavy outflows continue, fund managers will face increasing pressure to sell off some of their junk to pay departing investors in the weeks ahead. Such selling could erode prices of high-yield junk bonds, already weakened by a rash of corporate credit problems.    Mutual fund groups have n\'t lost control of much of the outgoing money, says Louis Harvey, Dalbar\'s president. Mutual fund officials say that investors have transferred most of it into their money market accounts, and to a lesser extent, government-bond funds. So the impact on the $950 billion mutual fund industry as a whole probably will be slight.    But tremors are likely in the junk-bond market, which has helped to finance the takeover boom of recent years. Mutual funds are the among the largest holders of junk, accounting for more than a quarter of the entire high-yield, high-risk market. The 88 mutual funds investing solely in junk bonds hold assets of about $32 billion. Other funds hold a smattering of junk bonds, too.    The $1.5 billion Fidelity High Income Fund has had a net outflow of about $150 million in the past two months. About $60 million streamed out last week alone, double the level of the week following last month\'s Campeau Corp. credit squeeze. About 98% of the outflow was transferred to other Fidelity funds, says Neal Litvack, a Fidelity vice president, marketing, with most going into money market funds.    "You get a news item, it hits, you have strong redemptions that day and for two days following -- then go back to normal," says Mr. Litvack. The fund, with a cash cushion of more than 10%, has " met all the redemptions without having to sell one thing," Mr. Litvack says. He adds: "Our fund has had {positive} net sales every month for the last three years -- until this month."    Vanguard\'s $1 billion High Yield Bond Portfolio has seen $161 million flow out since early September; $14 million of that seeped out Friday Oct. 13 alone. Still, two-thirds of the outflow has been steered into other Vanguard portfolios, says Brian Mattes, a vice president. The fund now holds a cash position of about 15%.    At the $932 million T. Rowe Price High Yield Fund, investors yanked out about $182 million in the past two months. Those withdrawals, most of which were transferred to other T. Rowe Price funds, followed little change in the fund\'s sales picture this year through August. "The last two months have been the whole ball game," says Steven Norwitz, a vice president.    Junk-fund holders have barely broken even this year, as fat interest payments barely managed to offset declining prices. Through Oct. 19, high-yield funds had an average 0.85% total return (the price change plus dividends on fund shares), according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc. That\'s even less than the 4.35% total return of the Merrill Lynch High-Yield Index.    Fidelity\'s junk fund has fallen 2.08% this year through Oct. 19, Lipper says; the Vanguard fund rose 1.84%; and the T. Rowe Price fund edged up 0.66%.    People who remain in junk funds now could get hit again, some analysts and fund specialists say. Many funds in recent weeks and months have been selling their highest-quality junk issues, such as RJR Nabisco, to raise cash to meet expected redemptions.    Funds might be forced to accept lower prices if they expand their selling to the securities of less-creditworthy borrowers. And then, asset values of the funds could plunge more than they have so far.    Says Michael Hirsch, chief investment officer of Republic National Bank and manager of the FundTrust Group in New York: "It\'s a time bomb just waiting to go off." ', 'hold', 'wsj_0768.tml']
["   Hudson's Bay Co. announced terms of a previously proposed rights issue that is expected to raise about 396 million Canadian dollars (US$337 million) net of expenses.    Proceeds of the offering will be used to redeem C$264 million of preferred shares and to reduce short-term debt, the company said.    Canada's largest department store operator said the rights offering will entitle holders of its ordinary shares, except residents in the U.S. and Britain, to subscribe for two additional shares for every five shares held at a price of C$31.25 a share. The record date is Nov. 9.    The company has about 31 million ordinary shares outstanding. On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Hudson's Bay shares closed at C$35, up 12.5 cents.    Hudson's Bay said that Woodbridge Co., which currently holds about 77% of the ordinary shares, will subscribe for all the shares to which it is entitled and for any shares that are n't otherwise taken up. Woodbridge is a holding company owned by Toronto's Thomson family.    Hudson's Bay said it will redeem 9.5 million Series H preferred shares on Oct. 31 at a price of C$27.75 each. The move was approved at a special shareholders' meeting yesterday.    Gary Lukassen, chief financial officer, said redemption of the preferred shares, originally issued at C$25 each, will eliminate dividend payments of C$17.9 million annually. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0798.tml']
['   Unisys Corp.\'s announcement Friday of a $648.2 million loss for the third quarter showed that the company is moving even faster than expected to take write-offs on its various problems and prepare for a turnaround next year.    At the same time, the sheer size of the loss, coupled with a slowing of orders, made some securities analysts wonder just how strong that turnaround will be at the computer maker and defense-electronics concern.    "Unisys is getting clobbered. Just clobbered," said Ulric Weil, an analyst at Weil amp Associates who had once been high on the company. "The quarter was terrible, and the future looks anything but encouraging."    Unisys, whose revenue inched up 3.7% in the quarter to $2.35 billion from $2.27 billion in the year-earlier quarter, had an operating loss of about $30 million. On top of that, the Blue Bell, Pa., concern took a $230 million charge related to the layoffs of 8,000 employees. That is at the high end of the range of 7,000 to 8,000 employees that Unisys said a month ago would be laid off. Unisys said that should help it save $500 million a year in costs, again at the high end of the previously reported range of $400 million to $500 million.    The company also took a write-off of $150 million to cover losses on some fixed-price defense contracts, as some new managers took a hard look at the prospects for that slow-growing business. In addition, Unisys set up an unspecified reserve -- apparently $60 million to $70 million -- to cover the minimum amount it will have to pay the government because of its involvement in the defense-procurement scandal. Unisys also noted that it paid $78.8 million in taxes during the quarter, even though tax payments normally would be minimal in a quarter that produced such a big loss.    The tax payments will leave Unisys with $225 million in loss carry-forwards that will cut tax payments in future quarters. In addition, Unisys said it reduced computer inventories a further $100 million during the quarter, leaving it within $100 million of its goal of a reduction of $500 million by the end of the year.    Still, Unisys said its European business was weak during the quarter, a worrisome sign given that the company has relied on solid results overseas to overcome weakness in the U.S. over the past several quarters.    The company also reported slower growth in another important business: systems that use the Unix operating system. That would be a huge problem if it were to continue, because Unisys is betting its business on the assumption that customers want to move away from using operating systems that run on only one manufacturer\'s equipment and toward systems -- mainly Unix -- that work on almost anyone\'s machines.    In addition, Unisys must deal with its increasingly oppressive debt load. Debt has risen to around $4 billion, or about 50% of total capitalization. That means Unisys must pay about $100 million in interest every quarter, on top of $27 million in dividends on preferred stock.    Jim Unruh, Unisys\'s president, said he is approaching next year with caution. He said the strength of the world-wide economy is suspect, and does n\'t see much revenue growth in the cards.    He also said that the price wars flaring up in parts of the computer industry will continue through next year. He said the move toward standard operating systems means customers are n\'t locked into buying from their traditional computer supplier and can force prices down. That, he said, is why Unisys is overhauling its whole business: It needs to prepare for a world in which profit margins will be lower than computer companies have been used to.    "We\'ve approached this not as a response to a temporary condition in the industry but as a fundamental change the industry is going through," Mr. Unruh said. "The information-systems industry is still going to be a high-growth business, and we\'re confident that we have tremendous assets as a company. But we do n\'t minimize the challenges of the near term."    Securities analysts were even more cautious, having been burned repeatedly on Unisys this year. Some had predicted earnings of more than $4 a share for this year, up from last year\'s fully diluted $3.27 a share on earnings of $680.6 million. But the company said Friday that it had losses of $673.3 million through the first nine months, compared with earnings a year earlier of $382.2 million, or $2.22 a share fully diluted, as revenue inched up 1.4% to $7.13 billion from $7.03 billion. And Unisys is expected to do little better than break even in the fourth quarter.    So Steve Milunovich at First Boston said he is cutting his earnings estimate for next year to $2 a share from $3. "I was feeling like I was too high to begin with," he said.    Mr. Weil of Weil amp Associates said he will remain at $1 a share for next year but said he wonders whether even that low target is at risk. "The break-even point for next year is much lower, but is it low enough?" he asked.    Reflecting the concern, Unisys stock fell a further 75 cents to $16.25 in composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. ', 'save', 'wsj_0568.tml']
["   N.V. DSM said net income in the third quarter jumped 63% as the company had substantially lower extraordinary charges to account for a restructuring program.    The Dutch chemical group said net income gained to 235 million guilders ($113.2 million), or 6.70 guilders a share, from 144 million guilders, or 4.10 guilders a share, a year ago.    The 32% state-owned DSM had eight million guilders of extraordinary charges in the latest quarter, mainly to reflect one-time losses in connection with the disposal of some operations. The charges were offset in part by a gain from the sale of the company's construction division.    Last year, DSM had 71 million guilders of extraordinary charges for the restructuring program and other transactions.    The earnings growth also was fueled by the company's ability to cut net financing spending by half to around 15 million guilders. Also, substantially lower Dutch corporate tax rates helped the company keep its tax outlay flat relative to earnings growth, the company added.    Sales, however , were little changed at 2.46 billion guilders, compared with 2.42 billion guilders. ", 'keep', 'wsj_0132.tml']
['   BLOCKBUSTER ENTERTAINMENT CORP. said it raised $92 million from an offering of liquid yield option notes. The gross proceeds from the sale of the notes, which will be due on Nov. 1, 2004, will be used to reduce existing debt and for general corporate purposes, the company said. The debt reduction is expected to save the Fort Lauderdale, Fla. home video concern about $2 million a year in interest expense. The zero-coupon subordinated notes have no periodic interest payments. Each note is being offered at $308.32 per $1,000 principal amount at maturity, representing an 8% yield to maturity. In addition, each note can be converted into Blockbuster Entertainment common stock at a rate of 13.851 shares per note. Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. is the sole underwriter for the offering. The notes will have a principal amount of $300 million at maturity. Blockbuster shares closed yesterday at $18.75, down $1.125, in New York Stock Exchange trading. ', 'save', 'wsj_0811.tml']
["   A.L. Williams Corp.  was merged into Primerica Corp., New York, after a special meeting of Williams shareholders cleared the transaction, the companies said.    Primerica, which  had owned nearly 70% of Williams,  will pay about 16.7 million shares, currently valued at almost $472 million, for the rest of Williams. The financial-services company  will pay 0.82 share for each Williams share.    Williams shares, which were  to  be delisted from the New York Stock Exchange after the close of composite trading yesterday, closed at $23.25, off 12.5 cents. Primerica closed at $28.25, down 50 cents.    Williams, Duluth, Ga., is an insurance and financial-services holding company. Its subsidiaries' services  are marketed by closely held A.L. Williams amp Associates. Primerica, as expected, also acquired certain assets of the agency and assumed certain of its liabilities. Terms were n't disclosed. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0150.tml']
['   Norwood Partners Limited Partnership of Boston said it may make a tender offer for some or all of Phoenix Technologies Ltd.\'s common shares.    Norwood, Mass.-based Phoenix, a once-high-flying maker of software for personal computers, has had substantial losses in the past two quarters. Its stock, which was as high as $18.75 a share, has been trading under $4 a share recently. Yesterday it closed at $4.375 a share, up $1.125, in national over-the-counter trading.    In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing, Norwood said it\'s part of a group that holds 525,546 Phoenix Technologies common shares, or a 5.3% stake.    Norwood has made "no detailed plans," but it has engaged in talks with other shareholders, the filing said. Phoenix declined to comment.    Norwood is controlled by Daniel L. Barnett and Paul A. Reese, both officers of Boston-based Oasis Capital Management Inc., a small Boston money management firm. Also involved in the group is Robert F. Angelo, formerly Phoenix\'s senior vice president, field operations, who left Phoenix at the beginning of October. Mr. Angelo was described in the filing as a consultant to Oasis. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0791.tml']
['   In a stunning shift in direction, Provigo Inc. said it will sell all its non-food operations to concentrate solely on its retail and wholesale grocery business. The non-food operations accounted for about 27% of Provigo\'s 7.38 billion Canadian dollars (US$6.3 billion) in sales in the latest fiscal year.    In a related move, Pierre Lortie, chairman and chief executive, resigned. Mr. Lortie joined Provigo in 1985 and spearheaded the company\'s drive to grow outside its traditional food business. He could n\'t be reached for comment.    Bertin Nadeau, newly appointed chairman and interim chief executive of Provigo, would n\'t say if Mr. Lortie was asked to leave. "Mr. Lortie felt less pertinent," Mr. Nadeau said, given the decision to dump Provigo\'s non-food operations. "At this stage it was felt I was perhaps more pertinent as chief executive." Mr. Nadeau also is chairman and chief executive of Unigesco Inc., Provigo\'s controlling shareholder.    At a news conference, Mr. Nadeau said the sale of the three non-food businesses, which account for nearly half the company\'s C$900 million in assets, should be completed in a "matter of months." The three units are a nationwide pharmaceutical and health-products distributor, a small sporting-goods chain, and a combination catalog showroom and toy-store chain.    Investors and analysts applauded the news. Provigo was the most active industrial stock on the Montreal Exchange, where it closed at C$9.75 (US$8.32), up 75 Canadian cents.    "I think it\'s a pretty positive development," said Ross Cowan, a financial analyst with Levesque Beaubien Geoffrion Inc., of the decision to concentrate on groceries. Mr. Lortie\'s departure, while sudden, was seen as inevitable in light of the shift in strategy. "The non-food operations were largely Mr. Lortie\'s creation {and} his strategy did n\'t work," said Steven Holt, a financial analyst with Midland Doherty Ltd.    Provigo\'s profit record over the past two years tarnished the company\'s and Mr. Lortie\'s reputations. For the six months ended Aug. 12, Provigo posted net income of C$6.5 million, or eight Canadian cents a share, compared with C$18.1 million, or 21 Canadian cents a share, a year earlier. Sales were C$4.2 billion compared with C$3.7 billion. Last month, Canadian Bond Rating Service downgraded Provigo\'s commercial paper and debentures because of its lackluster performance.    Analysts are skeptical Provigo will be able to sell the non-food businesses as a group for at least book value, and are expecting write-downs. Mr. Nadeau said he could n\'t yet say if the sale prices would match book values. He said all three non-food operations are profitable.    Mr. Nadeau said discussions are under way with potential purchasers of each of the units. He declined to confirm or deny reports that Provigo executive Henri Roy is trying to put together a management buy-out of the catalogue showroom unit. Mr. Roy could n\'t be reached.    Yvon Bussieres was named senior executive vice president and chief operating officer of Provigo, a new position. Mr. Bussieres was president and chief operating officer of Provigo\'s Quebec retail and wholesale grocery unit. Mr. Nadeau said he intends to remain Provigo\'s chief executive only until the non-food businesses are sold, after a which a new chief executive will be named. ', 'deny', 'wsj_1006.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'protect', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'deny', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'stop', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'block', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
['   Bethlehem Steel Corp., hammered by higher costs and lower shipments to key automotive and service-center customers, posted a 54% drop in third-quarter profit.    Separately, two more of the nation\'s top steelmakers -- Armco Inc. and National Intergroup Inc. -- reported lower operating earnings in their steel businesses, marking what is generally believed to be the end of a two-year boom in the industry.    Wall Street analysts expect the disappointing trend to continue into the fourth quarter and through at least the first two quarters of 1990, when the industry will increasingly see the effect of price erosion in major product lines, such as rolled sheet used for cars, appliances and construction.    "It does n\'t bode well for coming quarters," said John Jacobson, who follows the steel industry for AUS Consultants. In fact, he thinks several steelmakers will report actual losses through the third quarter of 1990.    Bethlehem, the nation\'s second largest steelmaker, earned $46.9 million, or 54 cents a share. The figures include $15 million in costs related to a blast furnace outage and $8 million in losses from unauthorized work outages at the company\'s coal operations. In the year-ago period, Bethlehem earned $101.4 million, or $1.27 a share, including a $3.8 million gain from early retirement of debt.    Third-quarter sales dropped 11% to $1.27 billion from $1.43 billion a year ago.    In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Bethlehem shares rose 50 cents to $17.375.    Of all the major steelmakers, Bethlehem would seem to be the most vulnerable to a slowdown. It hasn\'t diversified beyond steel, nor has it linked up with a joint venture partner to share costs and risks.    However, in spite of the difficult industrywide environment of high cost and low volume, Bethlehem "had pretty good earnings numbers," said Michelle Galanter Applebaum, an analyst with Salomon Brothers Inc. Ms. Applebaum had estimated third-quarter earnings of 55 cents a shhha55 cents a share,   ents a share, but  ssa share, but said the losses for the unusual items were larger than expected.    Still, Bethlehem\'s core basic steel operations experienced a steep drop in operating profit to $58.6 million from $186.4 million a year ago, when the industry enjoyed strong demand and pricing. The company said its shipments declined as a result of a reduction in inventories by service centers, a lackluster automotive market and increasing competitive pressures in the construction market.    At the same time, production costs, compared with a year ago, were boosted by higher raw material and employment costs, which resulted from the company\'s new labor pact effective June 1.    "We anticipate that steel market conditions will exhibit a further moderate decline in the fourth quarter as the automotive sector remains weak and customers continue to adjust inventories," said Bethlehem Chairman Walter F. Williams. He noted , however, that the company\'s order entry has increased from the low levels of the early summer, following the end of labor negotiations.    steel business, said third-quarter net income dropped 8% to $33 million, or 35 cents a share, from $36 million, or 39 cents a share in the year-ago quarter. Sales dropped to $441.1 million from $820.4 million, because the company no longer consolidates its Eastern Steel division, which is now a joint venture with Kawasaki Steel Corp.    Along with reduced volume, analysts said the nation\'s fifth largest steelmaker was hurt by holding higher-cost inventory when raw material costs of such key products as nickel dropped. Operating profit dropped 46% in its specialty flat-rolled steel segment. Moreover, the company said higher sales and shipments to service centers from its Armco Steel Co. joint venture failed to offset weakness in the automotive market, higher production costs and a poorer product mix.    Armco shares closed unchanged at $10.625 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.    National Intergroup, which owns 50% of the nation\'s sixth largest steelmaker -- National Steel Corp. -- posted net income for the fiscal second-quarter of $8.6 million, or 33 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $50.3 million. Sales increased in the quarter ended Sept. 30 to $747.8 million from $623.5 million a year ago. The latest period includes gains of $9.1 million from early retirement of debt and tax loss carry-forward. Last year\'s results were hurt by $41.3 million in restructuring charges.    National Intergroup stock closed at $15, unchanged in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange.    The company noted that its Fox-Meyer Drug Co., Ben Franklin Stores Inc. and Permian Corp. operations showed improvements as a result of restructuring moves. However, its equity in the net income of National Steel declined to $6.3 million from $10.9 million as a result of softer demand and lost orders following prolonged labor talks and a threatened strike. National Intergroup is negotiating for the sale of its 50% interest in National Steel to concentrate more fully on drug distribution operations. ', 'hold', 'wsj_1003.tml']
["   Chandler Insurance Co. said it expects to report third-quarter net income jumped 97% to $2.8 million, or 51 cents a share.    In the year-earlier quarter, the automobile and trucking insurer had earnings of $1.4 million, or 48 cents a share on a restated basis, on revenue of $16.5 million. In an interview, W. Brent LeGere, chairman and chief executive officer, said he expects revenue in the latest quarter to total about $28 million. The earnings-per-share figures reflect a 25% stock dividend in June 1989.    Mr. LeGere attributed the earnings increase to growth in the company's longhaul trucking insurance lines and the ability to keep premium rates firm. ", 'keep', 'wsj_0907.tml']
['   The government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants: the power to prevent them from paying their legal bills. And defense lawyers are warning that they wo n\'t stick around if they do n\'t get paid.    The issue has come to a boil in Newark, N.J., where federal prosecutors have warned lawyers for Eddie Antar that if the founder and former chairman of Crazy Eddie Inc. is indicted, the government may move to seize the money that Mr. Antar is using to pay legal fees.    The warning by the U.S. attorney\'s office follows two decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court last June. In those cases, the high court ruled that federal law gives prosecutors broad authority to seize assets of people accused of racketeering and drug-related crimes, including fees paid to lawyers before an indictment.    If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar\'s assets, he could be left without top-flight legal representation, because his attorneys are likely to quit, according to individuals familiar with the case. A seizure also would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers\' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs.    "The people who suffer in the short run are defendants, but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people, because there wo n\'t be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights," says Gerald Lefcourt, a criminal defense attorney who says he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures.    Mr. Antar is being investigated by a federal grand jury in Newark, where prosecutors have told him that they may soon seek an indictment on racketeering and securities fraud charges. Under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, or RICO, the government has the authority to seek to freeze or seize a defendant\'s assets before trial.    According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar\'s case, prosecutors issued their warning this week after one of Mr. Antar\'s attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure. In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar\'s lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized. Prosecutors have told Mr. Antar\'s attorneys that they believe Mr. Antar\'s allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities. Therefore, they said, the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid.    Justin Feldman and Jack Arseneault, attorneys for Mr. Antar, both declined to comment on the matter.    In Newark, U.S. Attorney Samuel A. Alito said, "I do n\'t think there\'s any legal reason to limit forfeiture of attorney\'s fees to drug cases." Mr. Alito said his office "just responded to an attorney\'s question about whether we would go after attorney\'s fees, and that is different from actually doing it, although we reserve that right."    Mr. Antar was charged last month in a civil suit filed in federal court in Newark by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In that suit, the SEC accused Mr. Antar of engaging in a "massive financial fraud" to overstate the earnings of Crazy Eddie, Edison, N.J., over a three-year period. Through his lawyers, Mr. Antar has denied allegations in the SEC suit and in civil suits previously filed by shareholders against Mr. Antar and others.    The SEC has alleged that Mr. Antar aimed to pump up the company\'s stock price through false financial statements in order to sell his stake and reap huge profits. Mr. Antar, the SEC said, made more than $60 million from the sale of his shares between 1985 and 1987.    The Justice Department has emphasized that the government\'s fee-forfeiture power is to be used sparingly. According to department policy, prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers\' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made.    Still, criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers\' fees. They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly, the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid. ', 'prevent', 'wsj_0778.tml']
['   The government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants: the power to prevent them from paying their legal bills. And defense lawyers are warning that they wo n\'t stick around if they do n\'t get paid.    The issue has come to a boil in Newark, N.J., where federal prosecutors have warned lawyers for Eddie Antar that if the founder and former chairman of Crazy Eddie Inc. is indicted, the government may move to seize the money that Mr. Antar is using to pay legal fees.    The warning by the U.S. attorney\'s office follows two decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court last June. In those cases, the high court ruled that federal law gives prosecutors broad authority to seize assets of people accused of racketeering and drug-related crimes, including fees paid to lawyers before an indictment.    If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar\'s assets, he could be left without top-flight legal representation, because his attorneys are likely to quit, according to individuals familiar with the case. A seizure also would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers\' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs.    "The people who suffer in the short run are defendants, but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people, because there wo n\'t be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights," says Gerald Lefcourt, a criminal defense attorney who says he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures.    Mr. Antar is being investigated by a federal grand jury in Newark, where prosecutors have told him that they may soon seek an indictment on racketeering and securities fraud charges. Under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, or RICO, the government has the authority to seek to freeze or seize a defendant\'s assets before trial.    According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar\'s case, prosecutors issued their warning this week after one of Mr. Antar\'s attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure. In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar\'s lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized. Prosecutors have told Mr. Antar\'s attorneys that they believe Mr. Antar\'s allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities. Therefore, they said, the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid.    Justin Feldman and Jack Arseneault, attorneys for Mr. Antar, both declined to comment on the matter.    In Newark, U.S. Attorney Samuel A. Alito said, "I do n\'t think there\'s any legal reason to limit forfeiture of attorney\'s fees to drug cases." Mr. Alito said his office "just responded to an attorney\'s question about whether we would go after attorney\'s fees, and that is different from actually doing it, although we reserve that right."    Mr. Antar was charged last month in a civil suit filed in federal court in Newark by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In that suit, the SEC accused Mr. Antar of engaging in a "massive financial fraud" to overstate the earnings of Crazy Eddie, Edison, N.J., over a three-year period. Through his lawyers, Mr. Antar has denied allegations in the SEC suit and in civil suits previously filed by shareholders against Mr. Antar and others.    The SEC has alleged that Mr. Antar aimed to pump up the company\'s stock price through false financial statements in order to sell his stake and reap huge profits. Mr. Antar, the SEC said, made more than $60 million from the sale of his shares between 1985 and 1987.    The Justice Department has emphasized that the government\'s fee-forfeiture power is to be used sparingly. According to department policy, prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers\' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made.    Still, criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers\' fees. They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly, the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid. ', 'deny', 'wsj_0778.tml']
['   The government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants: the power to prevent them from paying their legal bills. And defense lawyers are warning that they wo n\'t stick around if they do n\'t get paid.    The issue has come to a boil in Newark, N.J., where federal prosecutors have warned lawyers for Eddie Antar that if the founder and former chairman of Crazy Eddie Inc. is indicted, the government may move to seize the money that Mr. Antar is using to pay legal fees.    The warning by the U.S. attorney\'s office follows two decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court last June. In those cases, the high court ruled that federal law gives prosecutors broad authority to seize assets of people accused of racketeering and drug-related crimes, including fees paid to lawyers before an indictment.    If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar\'s assets, he could be left without top-flight legal representation, because his attorneys are likely to quit, according to individuals familiar with the case. A seizure also would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers\' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs.    "The people who suffer in the short run are defendants, but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people, because there wo n\'t be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights," says Gerald Lefcourt, a criminal defense attorney who says he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures.    Mr. Antar is being investigated by a federal grand jury in Newark, where prosecutors have told him that they may soon seek an indictment on racketeering and securities fraud charges. Under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, or RICO, the government has the authority to seek to freeze or seize a defendant\'s assets before trial.    According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar\'s case, prosecutors issued their warning this week after one of Mr. Antar\'s attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure. In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar\'s lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized. Prosecutors have told Mr. Antar\'s attorneys that they believe Mr. Antar\'s allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities. Therefore, they said, the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid.    Justin Feldman and Jack Arseneault, attorneys for Mr. Antar, both declined to comment on the matter.    In Newark, U.S. Attorney Samuel A. Alito said, "I do n\'t think there\'s any legal reason to limit forfeiture of attorney\'s fees to drug cases." Mr. Alito said his office "just responded to an attorney\'s question about whether we would go after attorney\'s fees, and that is different from actually doing it, although we reserve that right."    Mr. Antar was charged last month in a civil suit filed in federal court in Newark by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In that suit, the SEC accused Mr. Antar of engaging in a "massive financial fraud" to overstate the earnings of Crazy Eddie, Edison, N.J., over a three-year period. Through his lawyers, Mr. Antar has denied allegations in the SEC suit and in civil suits previously filed by shareholders against Mr. Antar and others.    The SEC has alleged that Mr. Antar aimed to pump up the company\'s stock price through false financial statements in order to sell his stake and reap huge profits. Mr. Antar, the SEC said, made more than $60 million from the sale of his shares between 1985 and 1987.    The Justice Department has emphasized that the government\'s fee-forfeiture power is to be used sparingly. According to department policy, prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers\' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made.    Still, criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers\' fees. They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly, the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid. ', 'avoid', 'wsj_0778.tml']
['   The government is sharpening its newest weapon against white-collar defendants: the power to prevent them from paying their legal bills. And defense lawyers are warning that they wo n\'t stick around if they do n\'t get paid.    The issue has come to a boil in Newark, N.J., where federal prosecutors have warned lawyers for Eddie Antar that if the founder and former chairman of Crazy Eddie Inc. is indicted, the government may move to seize the money that Mr. Antar is using to pay legal fees.    The warning by the U.S. attorney\'s office follows two decisions by the U.S. Supreme Court last June. In those cases, the high court ruled that federal law gives prosecutors broad authority to seize assets of people accused of racketeering and drug-related crimes, including fees paid to lawyers before an indictment.    If the government succeeds in seizing Mr. Antar\'s assets, he could be left without top-flight legal representation, because his attorneys are likely to quit, according to individuals familiar with the case. A seizure also would make the case the largest -- and one of the first -- in which lawyers\' fees have been confiscated in a prosecution unrelated to drugs.    "The people who suffer in the short run are defendants, but the people who suffer in the long run are all of the people, because there wo n\'t be a vigorous private bar to defend the Bill of Rights," says Gerald Lefcourt, a criminal defense attorney who says he has turned down a number of cases to avoid possible fee seizures.    Mr. Antar is being investigated by a federal grand jury in Newark, where prosecutors have told him that they may soon seek an indictment on racketeering and securities fraud charges. Under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations law, or RICO, the government has the authority to seek to freeze or seize a defendant\'s assets before trial.    According to individuals familiar with Mr. Antar\'s case, prosecutors issued their warning this week after one of Mr. Antar\'s attorneys asked whether legal fees might be subject to seizure. In a letter, prosecutors told Mr. Antar\'s lawyers that because of the recent Supreme Court rulings, they could expect that any fees collected from Mr. Antar may be seized. Prosecutors have told Mr. Antar\'s attorneys that they believe Mr. Antar\'s allegedly ill-gotten gains are so great that any money he has used to pay attorneys derives from illegal activities. Therefore, they said, the money can be taken from the lawyers even after they are paid.    Justin Feldman and Jack Arseneault, attorneys for Mr. Antar, both declined to comment on the matter.    In Newark, U.S. Attorney Samuel A. Alito said, "I do n\'t think there\'s any legal reason to limit forfeiture of attorney\'s fees to drug cases." Mr. Alito said his office "just responded to an attorney\'s question about whether we would go after attorney\'s fees, and that is different from actually doing it, although we reserve that right."    Mr. Antar was charged last month in a civil suit filed in federal court in Newark by the Securities and Exchange Commission. In that suit, the SEC accused Mr. Antar of engaging in a "massive financial fraud" to overstate the earnings of Crazy Eddie, Edison, N.J., over a three-year period. Through his lawyers, Mr. Antar has denied allegations in the SEC suit and in civil suits previously filed by shareholders against Mr. Antar and others.    The SEC has alleged that Mr. Antar aimed to pump up the company\'s stock price through false financial statements in order to sell his stake and reap huge profits. Mr. Antar, the SEC said, made more than $60 million from the sale of his shares between 1985 and 1987.    The Justice Department has emphasized that the government\'s fee-forfeiture power is to be used sparingly. According to department policy, prosecutors must make a strong showing that lawyers\' fees came from assets tainted by illegal profits before any attempts at seizure are made.    Still, criminal defense lawyers worry that defendants are being deprived of their Sixth Amendment right to counsel and a fair trial if the government can seize lawyers\' fees. They also worry that if the government applies asset-forfeiture laws broadly, the best defense lawyers will be unwilling to take criminal cases unless they are assured of being paid. ', 'bar', 'wsj_0778.tml']
["   Montedison S.p.A. definitively agreed to buy all of the publicly held shares of Erbamont N.V. for $37 each.    Montedison now owns about 72% of Erbamont's shares outstanding.    The companies said the accord was unanimously approved by a special committee of Erbamont directors unaffiliated with Montedison.    Under the pact, Montedision will make a $37-a-share tender offer for Erbamont stock outstanding. The tender offer will be followed by the sale of all of Erbamont's assets, subject to all of its liabilities, to Montedison. Erbamont will then be liquidated, with any remaining Erbamont holders receiving a distribution of $37 a share.    The companies said the transaction is being structured this way because the laws of the Netherlands Antilles, under which Erbamont is organized, do n't provide for merger transactions. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0660.tml']
['   Columbia Savings amp Loan Association, reeling from thrift-accounting changes mandated by Congress and the recent collapse of the junk-bond market, announced a loss for the third quarter of $226.3 million, or $11.57 a share.    For the quarter a year ago, Columbia reported earnings of $16.3 million, or 37 cents a share. Total assets increased to $12.7 billion in the latest quarter from $12.4 billion a year earlier.    The loss stems from $357.5 million of write-downs on Columbia\'s $4.4 billion high-yield investment securities portfolio, which includes about $3.7 billion of junk bonds, $400 million of preferred stock, and Treasury securities.    Columbia owes its spectacular growth in recent years to its junk-bond portfolio, the largest of any U.S. thrift. Much of Columbia\'s junk-bond trading has been done through the high-yield department of its Beverly Hills neighbor, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.    For the nine months, losses totaled $212 million, or $10.83 a share, compared with net income of $48.7 million, or $1.11 a share, a year earlier.    The results include a $130.2 million write-down of the securities in the high-yield portfolio to the lower of their cost or market value.    Columbia also added $227.3 million to reserves for losses on the portfolio, increasing general reserves to $300 million, or about 6.7% of the total portfolio, as of Sept. 30. On June 30, loss reserves stood at $108.3 million. Thrift officials said the $300 million reserve will be adjusted quarterly and will reflect the rate of dispositions and market conditions.    The adjustments result from the recently passed thrift-industry bailout legislation, which requires thrifts to divest all high-yield bond investments by 1994. Previously, Columbia did n\'t have to adjust the book value of its junk-bond holdings to reflect declines in market prices, because it held the bonds as long-term investments. Because Columbia now must sell the bonds within five years, accounting rules require the thrift to value the bonds at the lower of cost or market prices.    For its future strategy, Columbia officials said the thrift may branch out into commercial lending or managing outside investments, as well as beefing up more traditional thrift activities.    The quarterly results also reflected $21.4 million in non-recurring losses from commercial real-estate activities in California.    Thomas Spiegel, Columbia\'s chairman, said in a statement that the thrift was " disappointed" by the effects of the accounting changes. But he said Columbia remains "one of the most strongly capitalized thrifts in the industry," based on the economic value of its assets and tangible capital.    Columbia announced the results after the close of the stock market. Its shares closed at $5.125 each in composite New York Stock Exchange trading, down 37.5 cents. The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August, when they traded at about $10, as investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down. The stock\'s decline accelerated in the past two weeks, from a price of $8 a share on Oct. 9.    Columbia officials said they do n\'t know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift\'s junk bonds, because federal regulations, such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries, have n\'t yet been completed.    Columbia officials also said the thrift should n\'t face problems meeting regulatory capital requirements, despite the large reserves and write-downs and stiffer regulatory requirements that should be in place by year\'s end. Its ratio of tangible equity to total assets as of Sept. 30 was 3.6%, and total equity was $457.9 million.    The thrift emphasized that it has a large portfolio of equity securities issued in connection with corporate restructurings and leveraged buy-outs, which has a book value of $90 million.    Although many of the transactions related to those securities have n\'t been completed, Columbia said the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $200 million to $300 million. Columbia also has unrealized gains in its public equity securities portfolio of more than $70 million.    ---   David B. Hilder in New York contributed to this article. ', 'hold', 'wsj_1013.tml']
['   H. Marshall Schwarz was named chairman and chief executive officer of U.S. Trust Corp., a private-banking firm with assets under management of about $17 billion.    Mr. Schwarz, 52 years old, will succeed Daniel P. Davison Feb. 1, soon after Mr. Davison reaches the company\'s mandatory retirement age of 65. Mr. Schwarz, who is president of U.S. Trust, will be succeeded in that post by Jeffrey S. Maurer, 42, who is executive vice president in charge of the company\'s asset-management group.    U.S. Trust, a 136-year-old institution that is one of the earliest high-net worth banks in the U.S., has faced intensifying competition from other firms that have established, and heavily promoted, private-banking businesses of their own. As a result, U.S. Trust\'s earnings have been hurt.    But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust\'s flagship businesses, calling it "flattery." Mr. Schwarz says the competition "broadens the base of opportunity for us." Other firms "are dealing with the masses. I do n\'t believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds. U.S. Trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products, which allow it to serve customers with minimum deposits of $250,000. Previously, the company advertised at the $2 million level.    "We have always taken smaller accounts, but now we are looking for smaller accounts that will grow," Mr. Schwarz says. "Our bread and butter is still the $2 million to $20 million account," he says. The new services allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth," Mr. Schwarz says.    Quarterly net income this year has risen just over comparable periods in 1988, when year-end net was below the 1987 level. In this year\'s third quarter, for example, net was $10.5 million, or $1.05 a share, compared with $10.3 million, or $1.02 a share, a year earlier. Assets as of Sept. 30 fell to $2.46 billion from about $2.77 billion. "We  will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says. Mr. Schwarz also said costs associated with U.S. Trust\'s planned move to midtown Manhattan from Wall Street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990.    Mr. Schwarz\'s great-grandfather founded the New York toy store F.A.O. Schwarz, but his family no longer has ties to the company. Mr. Schwarz\'s father was a U.S. Trust trustee until 1974.    U.S. Trust also created a four-member office of the chairman, effective Feb. 1. It  will include Messrs. Schwarz and Maurer. Donald M. Roberts, 54, treasurer, and Frederick S. Wonham, 58, who takes responsibility for the funds-service group, were named vice chairmen and will serve in the office of the chairman. Mr. Roberts continues as treasurer, and Mr. Wonham remains responsible for the offices of comptroller, planning, marketing and general services.    Frederick B. Taylor, 48, also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer, a new post. He previously held similar responsibilities. Mr. Taylor also was named a director, increasing the board to 22, but is not  part of the new office of the chairman.    James E. Bacon, 58, executive vice president, who has directed the funds-service group, will retire. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0927.tml']
['   Sun Microsystems Inc., snapping back to profitability after its first quarterly loss as a public firm, said it earned $5.2 million, or seven cents a share, in the fiscal first quarter.    Sun, a maker of computer workstations, reported sales of $538.5 million for the quarter ended Sept. 29, up 39% from $388.5 million a year earlier. In the 1988 period, the company earned $20.6 million, or 26 cents a share.    Sun\'s results were slightly better than expectations. Earlier this month, the company said it expected to break even for the quarter on sales of $530 million.    In a statement, Scott McNealy, Sun\'s chief executive officer, said the company\'s performance was hampered by problems tied to the introduction of a major new family of computers in April. One of those new computers, called Sparcstation 1, accounted for nearly half of the 28,000 systems Sun shipped in the quarter, he said. More than two-thirds of the systems shipped, meanwhile , were products introduced in April.    But problems in manufacturing, forecasting demand and getting the bugs out of a new management information system made it extremely difficult for Sun to meet demand for its newest computers well into the summer. These problems also resulted in Sun reporting a $20.3 million loss for its fourth quarter ended June 30.    Mr. McNealy said the issues that hurt Sun\'s performance earlier this year are now " largely" behind the firm, and he indicated that Sun\'s profitability should increase throughout the fiscal year.    Sun also reported a record backlog of orders. While this indicates continued strong demand for the company\'s desk-top computers, Sun faces increasing competition from Digital Equipment Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co. Recently, analysts have said Sun also is vulnerable to competition from International Business Machines Corp., which plans to introduce a group of workstations early next year, and Next Inc. ', 'hamper', 'wsj_0928.tml']
['   General Motors Corp. wants to buy as much as 15% of Jaguar PLC, marking its first salvo in a possible full-scale battle against Ford Motor Co. for control of the British car maker.    GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $15 million worth of Jaguar shares but does n\'t own any yet, according to GM officials here and at the company\'s Detroit headquarters. The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends "to go to that 15%" level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million, a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday.    The GM move follows Tuesday\'s declaration by Ford, which holds an unwelcome 12.45% stake in Jaguar, that it is prepared to bid for the entire company. GM is close to completing a friendly deal with Jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30% stake and joint manufacturing ventures. Speculative investors, betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM, pushed up Jaguar\'s share price five pence (eight U.S. cents) to a near-record 720 pence ($11.60) in late trading on London\'s stock exchange yesterday. Since Tuesday, the shares have gained nearly 4%.    But an all-out bidding war between the world\'s top auto giants for Britain\'s leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely. "We will not go over a certain level," said David N. McCammon, Ford\'s vice president for finance, at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn, Mich."There\'s some price at which we\'d stop bidding." He would n\'t specify what it was.    And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share, which limits any individual holding to 15%, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.    "I really do n\'t see the government doing something that Jaguar does n\'t want over the next 14 months," said Kenneth Warren, a Conservative member of Parliament and chairman of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry in Britain\'s House of Commons. "The golden share is a single share, but it is the magic share."    The government retained the single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization. The 15% restriction covers any would-be suitor, British or foreign.    Ford is willing to bid for 100% of Jaguar\'s shares if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely. As Jaguar\'s biggest holder and Britain\'s biggest car maker, Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders\' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early. Ford might succeed because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management\'s handling of its current financial difficulties.    The government probably would n\'t give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford, however. It has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during British Petroleum Co.\'s #2.5 billion ($4 billion) takeover of Britoil PLC in 1988.    In wooing British lawmakers, GM has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep Jaguar British-owned and independent. This week, the U.S. auto giant paid for 10 House of Commons members and two House of Lords members to fly to Detroit and tour its operations there. While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar, GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators\' questions about it over lunch Tuesday. He said Jaguar "should n\'t be smothered by anyone else , " recalled one participant.    Politics also influences the government\'s thinking on the anti-takeover restriction. The Conservatives do n\'t dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain\'s water and electricity industries.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction\'s early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford. In the end, Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share. ', 'keep', 'wsj_0745.tml']
['   General Motors Corp. wants to buy as much as 15% of Jaguar PLC, marking its first salvo in a possible full-scale battle against Ford Motor Co. for control of the British car maker.    GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $15 million worth of Jaguar shares but does n\'t own any yet, according to GM officials here and at the company\'s Detroit headquarters. The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends "to go to that 15%" level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million, a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday.    The GM move follows Tuesday\'s declaration by Ford, which holds an unwelcome 12.45% stake in Jaguar, that it is prepared to bid for the entire company. GM is close to completing a friendly deal with Jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30% stake and joint manufacturing ventures. Speculative investors, betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM, pushed up Jaguar\'s share price five pence (eight U.S. cents) to a near-record 720 pence ($11.60) in late trading on London\'s stock exchange yesterday. Since Tuesday, the shares have gained nearly 4%.    But an all-out bidding war between the world\'s top auto giants for Britain\'s leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely. "We will not go over a certain level," said David N. McCammon, Ford\'s vice president for finance, at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn, Mich."There\'s some price at which we\'d stop bidding." He would n\'t specify what it was.    And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share, which limits any individual holding to 15%, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.    "I really do n\'t see the government doing something that Jaguar does n\'t want over the next 14 months," said Kenneth Warren, a Conservative member of Parliament and chairman of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry in Britain\'s House of Commons. "The golden share is a single share, but it is the magic share."    The government retained the single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization. The 15% restriction covers any would-be suitor, British or foreign.    Ford is willing to bid for 100% of Jaguar\'s shares if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely. As Jaguar\'s biggest holder and Britain\'s biggest car maker, Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders\' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early. Ford might succeed because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management\'s handling of its current financial difficulties.    The government probably would n\'t give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford, however. It has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during British Petroleum Co.\'s #2.5 billion ($4 billion) takeover of Britoil PLC in 1988.    In wooing British lawmakers, GM has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep Jaguar British-owned and independent. This week, the U.S. auto giant paid for 10 House of Commons members and two House of Lords members to fly to Detroit and tour its operations there. While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar, GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators\' questions about it over lunch Tuesday. He said Jaguar "should n\'t be smothered by anyone else , " recalled one participant.    Politics also influences the government\'s thinking on the anti-takeover restriction. The Conservatives do n\'t dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain\'s water and electricity industries.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction\'s early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford. In the end, Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share. ', 'protect', 'wsj_0745.tml']
['   General Motors Corp. wants to buy as much as 15% of Jaguar PLC, marking its first salvo in a possible full-scale battle against Ford Motor Co. for control of the British car maker.    GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $15 million worth of Jaguar shares but does n\'t own any yet, according to GM officials here and at the company\'s Detroit headquarters. The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends "to go to that 15%" level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million, a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday.    The GM move follows Tuesday\'s declaration by Ford, which holds an unwelcome 12.45% stake in Jaguar, that it is prepared to bid for the entire company. GM is close to completing a friendly deal with Jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30% stake and joint manufacturing ventures. Speculative investors, betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM, pushed up Jaguar\'s share price five pence (eight U.S. cents) to a near-record 720 pence ($11.60) in late trading on London\'s stock exchange yesterday. Since Tuesday, the shares have gained nearly 4%.    But an all-out bidding war between the world\'s top auto giants for Britain\'s leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely. "We will not go over a certain level," said David N. McCammon, Ford\'s vice president for finance, at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn, Mich."There\'s some price at which we\'d stop bidding." He would n\'t specify what it was.    And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share, which limits any individual holding to 15%, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.    "I really do n\'t see the government doing something that Jaguar does n\'t want over the next 14 months," said Kenneth Warren, a Conservative member of Parliament and chairman of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry in Britain\'s House of Commons. "The golden share is a single share, but it is the magic share."    The government retained the single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization. The 15% restriction covers any would-be suitor, British or foreign.    Ford is willing to bid for 100% of Jaguar\'s shares if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely. As Jaguar\'s biggest holder and Britain\'s biggest car maker, Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders\' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early. Ford might succeed because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management\'s handling of its current financial difficulties.    The government probably would n\'t give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford, however. It has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during British Petroleum Co.\'s #2.5 billion ($4 billion) takeover of Britoil PLC in 1988.    In wooing British lawmakers, GM has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep Jaguar British-owned and independent. This week, the U.S. auto giant paid for 10 House of Commons members and two House of Lords members to fly to Detroit and tour its operations there. While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar, GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators\' questions about it over lunch Tuesday. He said Jaguar "should n\'t be smothered by anyone else , " recalled one participant.    Politics also influences the government\'s thinking on the anti-takeover restriction. The Conservatives do n\'t dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain\'s water and electricity industries.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction\'s early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford. In the end, Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share. ', 'stop', 'wsj_0745.tml']
['   General Motors Corp. wants to buy as much as 15% of Jaguar PLC, marking its first salvo in a possible full-scale battle against Ford Motor Co. for control of the British car maker.    GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $15 million worth of Jaguar shares but does n\'t own any yet, according to GM officials here and at the company\'s Detroit headquarters. The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends "to go to that 15%" level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million, a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday.    The GM move follows Tuesday\'s declaration by Ford, which holds an unwelcome 12.45% stake in Jaguar, that it is prepared to bid for the entire company. GM is close to completing a friendly deal with Jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30% stake and joint manufacturing ventures. Speculative investors, betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM, pushed up Jaguar\'s share price five pence (eight U.S. cents) to a near-record 720 pence ($11.60) in late trading on London\'s stock exchange yesterday. Since Tuesday, the shares have gained nearly 4%.    But an all-out bidding war between the world\'s top auto giants for Britain\'s leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely. "We will not go over a certain level," said David N. McCammon, Ford\'s vice president for finance, at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn, Mich."There\'s some price at which we\'d stop bidding." He would n\'t specify what it was.    And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share, which limits any individual holding to 15%, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.    "I really do n\'t see the government doing something that Jaguar does n\'t want over the next 14 months," said Kenneth Warren, a Conservative member of Parliament and chairman of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry in Britain\'s House of Commons. "The golden share is a single share, but it is the magic share."    The government retained the single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization. The 15% restriction covers any would-be suitor, British or foreign.    Ford is willing to bid for 100% of Jaguar\'s shares if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely. As Jaguar\'s biggest holder and Britain\'s biggest car maker, Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders\' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early. Ford might succeed because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management\'s handling of its current financial difficulties.    The government probably would n\'t give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford, however. It has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during British Petroleum Co.\'s #2.5 billion ($4 billion) takeover of Britoil PLC in 1988.    In wooing British lawmakers, GM has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep Jaguar British-owned and independent. This week, the U.S. auto giant paid for 10 House of Commons members and two House of Lords members to fly to Detroit and tour its operations there. While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar, GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators\' questions about it over lunch Tuesday. He said Jaguar "should n\'t be smothered by anyone else , " recalled one participant.    Politics also influences the government\'s thinking on the anti-takeover restriction. The Conservatives do n\'t dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain\'s water and electricity industries.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction\'s early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford. In the end, Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0745.tml']
['   "So far, the offensive is progressing with dramaticsuccess," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commanderof U.S. forces. Similarly, while cautioning about theuncertainty of early battle reports, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that "the operation has been very successful." Amid reports that thousands of Iraqisoldiers had surrendered, administration aides were alsoupbeat in private, with one even talking of victory within aweek.   But even continued military success carries political anddiplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. The alliedrejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiativefrom an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms. But ithas offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush\'s real objectives are the demise ofSaddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, notjust the liberation of Kuwait.   "Why have a war?" asked Abdul Latif Shekar, a customsofficer in Egypt, a country participating in the attack onIraqi troops. "I think the Gorbachev plan was a good one.Iraq was ready to withdraw." Now, he says, "it looks like theWest just wants to destroy Iraq."   Despite the early indications of success, the alliedforces could still suffer greater casualties and becomebogged down militarily  , especially when they encounter thetough Republican Guard, which is entrenched along theIraq-Kuwait border. If so, and if it appears that theAmerican goal actually is to destroy the Iraqi regime even atthe cost of badly hurting Iraqi society, "the lingering costof that could be high," worries former national securityadviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. But, he notes, "If everythingcrumbles totally, that won\'t be such a problem."   American officials staunchly disavow any interest indriving through Iraq toward Baghdad, either in pursuit ofSaddam Hussein himself or to set up some American-controlledgovernment inside Iraq. The Americans say their battle planscall for operating against forces inside Iraq as far north asthe city of Basra, about 30 miles north of Kuwait, but saythere is n\'t  any plan to drive beyond that.   Indeed, French President Francois Mitterrand saidyesterday that some allied forces are crossing Iraqiterritory as part of a "pincer" movement to trap the soldiersoccupying Kuwait, but insisted, "The purpose isn\'t to invadeIraqi territory, that\'s not the aim, that isn\'t the mandate."   Nevertheless, American officials over the weekend becamemore open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein\'smilitary machine they hope to destroy his regime -- a goallikely to be supported by most Americans.   In a pre-attack message, Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, the topMarine in the Persian Gulf, told U.S. Marines that their goalis to " restore {Kuwait} to its citizens." He went on to addthat "in so doing you not only return a nation to its people,but you will destroy the war machine of a ruthless dictator."   Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV\'s "This WeekWith David Brinkley" that the series of United Nationsresolutions condemning Iraq\'s invasion of Kuwait "imply thatthe restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be aheck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not  inpower in Iraq."   Of course, it is still far too early to assume that themilitary situation on the ground will stay as smooth forallied forces as it appears to have been so far. Iraq stillhas the potential to cause significant problems by usingforces and weapons that don\'t yet seem fully engaged.   For one thing, Iraq still apparently has n\'t unleashed itsstockpile of chemical weapons. Gen. Schwarzkopf said thatsome early reports that chemical weapons were used againstallied troops turned out to be "bogus." Iraq is believed to have the ability to deliver chemical weapons in artilleryshells or, perhaps, atop Soviet-made Frog7 missiles.   Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troopshave n\'t yet fully engaged Iraq\'s vaunted Republican Guard,which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait borderand is considered the most potent element in the Iraqidefense. It remains to be seen how much damage the allied aircampaign was able to inflict on the Guard, and whetherPresident Hussein will commit his most valued troops to afight-to-the-death finish.   Certainly Saddam Hussein continues to implore his countryto fight on. "Fight them," he urged Iraqis in a radioaddress. "All Iraqis, fight them with all the power you have,and all struggle for everything."   American war planners have long assumed that the earlystage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and theirstrength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi frontline, would be the easiest part.   Despite these early successes, the mere fact that a groundcampaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bushadministration will face fresh problems growing out of themilitary situation. There are likely to be additionalAmerican prisoners of war taken, and there are signs thatPresident Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. U.S. andKuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers ofcivilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held byIraqi troops, apparently either for use as human shields orfor use later in bargaining once the war is over.   President Bush\'s political argument for going to a groundwar has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports ofwanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. U.S. officials saythat hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells now may have been set afire. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush\'s deputy national securityadviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Networkthat Iraqi troops have set fire to "large sections" of KuwaitCity.   Mr. Bush and his aides were leaning toward a militaryconclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports ofIraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light. The president andhis top aides tentatively decided on Feb. 11 that a groundwar would be necessary. The decision was made after DefenseSecretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of theJoint Chiefs of Staff, returned from a visit with militarycommanders in Saudi Arabia, administration officials say.Then, a week or so ago, Gen. Schwarzkopf secretly pickedSaturday night as the optimal time to start the offensive.   The date was unaffected by the last-ditch Soviet peaceinitiative. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S.officials now say, was that they all would have requiredlifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The Bushadministration considers the sanctions essential to keepingSaddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.   Mr. Bush forestalled further diplomatic maneuvering byissuing an ultimatum on behalf of the allies demanding thatIraq withdraw within a week, starting at noon Saturday.Administration aides said that the idea of the ultimatum wasGen. Powell\'s. He argued setting an explicit deadline forSaddam Hussein to break would, when it was broken, give theU.S. military a clear green light to proceed.   In setting out his final challenge to Saddam Hussein, Mr.Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy he beganafter the invasion llast August. After cabling world leadersabout his intention to give Saddam Hussein a final deadlineto exit Kuwait, he offered him a week to withdraw fully  , instead of the four days he originally considered, because ofobjections from some European partners that four days seemedpunitive and unrealistic.   And when he and President Gorbachev spoke about thedecision in a talk lasting nearly an hour, the President tookpains to listen to what his counterpart had to say, althoughhe already had decided that the Soviet alternative to theallied deadline was unacceptable.   Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S.ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin aspreviously planned Saturday night.   The attack was lightning quick, as allied forces punchedthrough tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward intoIraq and Kuwait. U.S. Marines were said to have breachedtroublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagonofficials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait\'s beaches had begun. Long columns of Iraqi prisoners of war could be seentrudging through the desert toward the allied rear. U.S.commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the firsthours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.   The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out ofKuwait quickly , leaving much of Iraq\'s offensive militaryequipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. It expects thattens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to theU.S. and its allies over the the next few days.   If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plungedhis country first into a fruitless eight-year-long waragainst Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S.and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving muchof his country\'s military establishment and moderninfrastructure in ruins.   Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and aninternational arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraqpays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. Thatwould undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or itsarmed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remainsin power. The American hope is that someone from within Iraq,perhaps from the army\'s professional ranks, will step forwardand push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can beginrecovering from the disaster.   Outside analysts think Saddam Hussein\'s position is indeedprecarious. "I think frankly Saddam is finished, no matterwhat happens," says Christine Helms, a Middle East scholarwho has written extensively about Iraq. "These guys simply do n\'t retire to condos over the Euphrates."   Despite the lack of any obvious successors, the Iraqileader\'s internal power base appeared to be narrowing evenbefore the war began. Some analysts say he appeared to be relying on a smaller and smaller circle of close advisers andrelatives. If that\'s true, the narrowing of his support would make it easier for someone to push him aside from within.   Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein\'s support within theIraqi military. And the U.S. now will face sharper questionsin the Arab world since it did n\'t  back  the peace proposalsworked out in Moscow. "We looked to the United States, weexpected you to have the moral edge," says Nasser Tahboub, aJerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and adoctorate in political science from Duke University. "Now wesee that edge eroded. For me, it is a great tragedy. For thefirst time in history, the U.S. has gone to war with an Araband Muslim nation, and we know a peaceful solution was inreach."   ---   Geraldine Brooks in Amman, Jordan, and Craig Forman inCairo, Egypt, contributed to this article.', 'hold', 'WSJ910225-0066.tml']
['   "So far, the offensive is progressing with dramaticsuccess," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commanderof U.S. forces. Similarly, while cautioning about theuncertainty of early battle reports, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that "the operation has been very successful." Amid reports that thousands of Iraqisoldiers had surrendered, administration aides were alsoupbeat in private, with one even talking of victory within aweek.   But even continued military success carries political anddiplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. The alliedrejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiativefrom an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms. But ithas offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush\'s real objectives are the demise ofSaddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, notjust the liberation of Kuwait.   "Why have a war?" asked Abdul Latif Shekar, a customsofficer in Egypt, a country participating in the attack onIraqi troops. "I think the Gorbachev plan was a good one.Iraq was ready to withdraw." Now, he says, "it looks like theWest just wants to destroy Iraq."   Despite the early indications of success, the alliedforces could still suffer greater casualties and becomebogged down militarily  , especially when they encounter thetough Republican Guard, which is entrenched along theIraq-Kuwait border. If so, and if it appears that theAmerican goal actually is to destroy the Iraqi regime even atthe cost of badly hurting Iraqi society, "the lingering costof that could be high," worries former national securityadviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. But, he notes, "If everythingcrumbles totally, that won\'t be such a problem."   American officials staunchly disavow any interest indriving through Iraq toward Baghdad, either in pursuit ofSaddam Hussein himself or to set up some American-controlledgovernment inside Iraq. The Americans say their battle planscall for operating against forces inside Iraq as far north asthe city of Basra, about 30 miles north of Kuwait, but saythere is n\'t  any plan to drive beyond that.   Indeed, French President Francois Mitterrand saidyesterday that some allied forces are crossing Iraqiterritory as part of a "pincer" movement to trap the soldiersoccupying Kuwait, but insisted, "The purpose isn\'t to invadeIraqi territory, that\'s not the aim, that isn\'t the mandate."   Nevertheless, American officials over the weekend becamemore open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein\'smilitary machine they hope to destroy his regime -- a goallikely to be supported by most Americans.   In a pre-attack message, Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, the topMarine in the Persian Gulf, told U.S. Marines that their goalis to " restore {Kuwait} to its citizens." He went on to addthat "in so doing you not only return a nation to its people,but you will destroy the war machine of a ruthless dictator."   Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV\'s "This WeekWith David Brinkley" that the series of United Nationsresolutions condemning Iraq\'s invasion of Kuwait "imply thatthe restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be aheck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not  inpower in Iraq."   Of course, it is still far too early to assume that themilitary situation on the ground will stay as smooth forallied forces as it appears to have been so far. Iraq stillhas the potential to cause significant problems by usingforces and weapons that don\'t yet seem fully engaged.   For one thing, Iraq still apparently has n\'t unleashed itsstockpile of chemical weapons. Gen. Schwarzkopf said thatsome early reports that chemical weapons were used againstallied troops turned out to be "bogus." Iraq is believed to have the ability to deliver chemical weapons in artilleryshells or, perhaps, atop Soviet-made Frog7 missiles.   Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troopshave n\'t yet fully engaged Iraq\'s vaunted Republican Guard,which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait borderand is considered the most potent element in the Iraqidefense. It remains to be seen how much damage the allied aircampaign was able to inflict on the Guard, and whetherPresident Hussein will commit his most valued troops to afight-to-the-death finish.   Certainly Saddam Hussein continues to implore his countryto fight on. "Fight them," he urged Iraqis in a radioaddress. "All Iraqis, fight them with all the power you have,and all struggle for everything."   American war planners have long assumed that the earlystage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and theirstrength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi frontline, would be the easiest part.   Despite these early successes, the mere fact that a groundcampaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bushadministration will face fresh problems growing out of themilitary situation. There are likely to be additionalAmerican prisoners of war taken, and there are signs thatPresident Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. U.S. andKuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers ofcivilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held byIraqi troops, apparently either for use as human shields orfor use later in bargaining once the war is over.   President Bush\'s political argument for going to a groundwar has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports ofwanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. U.S. officials saythat hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells now may have been set afire. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush\'s deputy national securityadviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Networkthat Iraqi troops have set fire to "large sections" of KuwaitCity.   Mr. Bush and his aides were leaning toward a militaryconclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports ofIraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light. The president andhis top aides tentatively decided on Feb. 11 that a groundwar would be necessary. The decision was made after DefenseSecretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of theJoint Chiefs of Staff, returned from a visit with militarycommanders in Saudi Arabia, administration officials say.Then, a week or so ago, Gen. Schwarzkopf secretly pickedSaturday night as the optimal time to start the offensive.   The date was unaffected by the last-ditch Soviet peaceinitiative. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S.officials now say, was that they all would have requiredlifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The Bushadministration considers the sanctions essential to keepingSaddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.   Mr. Bush forestalled further diplomatic maneuvering byissuing an ultimatum on behalf of the allies demanding thatIraq withdraw within a week, starting at noon Saturday.Administration aides said that the idea of the ultimatum wasGen. Powell\'s. He argued setting an explicit deadline forSaddam Hussein to break would, when it was broken, give theU.S. military a clear green light to proceed.   In setting out his final challenge to Saddam Hussein, Mr.Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy he beganafter the invasion llast August. After cabling world leadersabout his intention to give Saddam Hussein a final deadlineto exit Kuwait, he offered him a week to withdraw fully  , instead of the four days he originally considered, because ofobjections from some European partners that four days seemedpunitive and unrealistic.   And when he and President Gorbachev spoke about thedecision in a talk lasting nearly an hour, the President tookpains to listen to what his counterpart had to say, althoughhe already had decided that the Soviet alternative to theallied deadline was unacceptable.   Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S.ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin aspreviously planned Saturday night.   The attack was lightning quick, as allied forces punchedthrough tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward intoIraq and Kuwait. U.S. Marines were said to have breachedtroublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagonofficials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait\'s beaches had begun. Long columns of Iraqi prisoners of war could be seentrudging through the desert toward the allied rear. U.S.commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the firsthours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.   The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out ofKuwait quickly , leaving much of Iraq\'s offensive militaryequipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. It expects thattens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to theU.S. and its allies over the the next few days.   If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plungedhis country first into a fruitless eight-year-long waragainst Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S.and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving muchof his country\'s military establishment and moderninfrastructure in ruins.   Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and aninternational arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraqpays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. Thatwould undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or itsarmed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remainsin power. The American hope is that someone from within Iraq,perhaps from the army\'s professional ranks, will step forwardand push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can beginrecovering from the disaster.   Outside analysts think Saddam Hussein\'s position is indeedprecarious. "I think frankly Saddam is finished, no matterwhat happens," says Christine Helms, a Middle East scholarwho has written extensively about Iraq. "These guys simply do n\'t retire to condos over the Euphrates."   Despite the lack of any obvious successors, the Iraqileader\'s internal power base appeared to be narrowing evenbefore the war began. Some analysts say he appeared to be relying on a smaller and smaller circle of close advisers andrelatives. If that\'s true, the narrowing of his support would make it easier for someone to push him aside from within.   Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein\'s support within theIraqi military. And the U.S. now will face sharper questionsin the Arab world since it did n\'t  back  the peace proposalsworked out in Moscow. "We looked to the United States, weexpected you to have the moral edge," says Nasser Tahboub, aJerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and adoctorate in political science from Duke University. "Now wesee that edge eroded. For me, it is a great tragedy. For thefirst time in history, the U.S. has gone to war with an Araband Muslim nation, and we know a peaceful solution was inreach."   ---   Geraldine Brooks in Amman, Jordan, and Craig Forman inCairo, Egypt, contributed to this article.', 'forestall', 'WSJ910225-0066.tml']
['   "So far, the offensive is progressing with dramaticsuccess," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commanderof U.S. forces. Similarly, while cautioning about theuncertainty of early battle reports, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that "the operation has been very successful." Amid reports that thousands of Iraqisoldiers had surrendered, administration aides were alsoupbeat in private, with one even talking of victory within aweek.   But even continued military success carries political anddiplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. The alliedrejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiativefrom an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms. But ithas offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush\'s real objectives are the demise ofSaddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, notjust the liberation of Kuwait.   "Why have a war?" asked Abdul Latif Shekar, a customsofficer in Egypt, a country participating in the attack onIraqi troops. "I think the Gorbachev plan was a good one.Iraq was ready to withdraw." Now, he says, "it looks like theWest just wants to destroy Iraq."   Despite the early indications of success, the alliedforces could still suffer greater casualties and becomebogged down militarily  , especially when they encounter thetough Republican Guard, which is entrenched along theIraq-Kuwait border. If so, and if it appears that theAmerican goal actually is to destroy the Iraqi regime even atthe cost of badly hurting Iraqi society, "the lingering costof that could be high," worries former national securityadviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. But, he notes, "If everythingcrumbles totally, that won\'t be such a problem."   American officials staunchly disavow any interest indriving through Iraq toward Baghdad, either in pursuit ofSaddam Hussein himself or to set up some American-controlledgovernment inside Iraq. The Americans say their battle planscall for operating against forces inside Iraq as far north asthe city of Basra, about 30 miles north of Kuwait, but saythere is n\'t  any plan to drive beyond that.   Indeed, French President Francois Mitterrand saidyesterday that some allied forces are crossing Iraqiterritory as part of a "pincer" movement to trap the soldiersoccupying Kuwait, but insisted, "The purpose isn\'t to invadeIraqi territory, that\'s not the aim, that isn\'t the mandate."   Nevertheless, American officials over the weekend becamemore open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein\'smilitary machine they hope to destroy his regime -- a goallikely to be supported by most Americans.   In a pre-attack message, Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, the topMarine in the Persian Gulf, told U.S. Marines that their goalis to " restore {Kuwait} to its citizens." He went on to addthat "in so doing you not only return a nation to its people,but you will destroy the war machine of a ruthless dictator."   Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV\'s "This WeekWith David Brinkley" that the series of United Nationsresolutions condemning Iraq\'s invasion of Kuwait "imply thatthe restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be aheck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not  inpower in Iraq."   Of course, it is still far too early to assume that themilitary situation on the ground will stay as smooth forallied forces as it appears to have been so far. Iraq stillhas the potential to cause significant problems by usingforces and weapons that don\'t yet seem fully engaged.   For one thing, Iraq still apparently has n\'t unleashed itsstockpile of chemical weapons. Gen. Schwarzkopf said thatsome early reports that chemical weapons were used againstallied troops turned out to be "bogus." Iraq is believed to have the ability to deliver chemical weapons in artilleryshells or, perhaps, atop Soviet-made Frog7 missiles.   Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troopshave n\'t yet fully engaged Iraq\'s vaunted Republican Guard,which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait borderand is considered the most potent element in the Iraqidefense. It remains to be seen how much damage the allied aircampaign was able to inflict on the Guard, and whetherPresident Hussein will commit his most valued troops to afight-to-the-death finish.   Certainly Saddam Hussein continues to implore his countryto fight on. "Fight them," he urged Iraqis in a radioaddress. "All Iraqis, fight them with all the power you have,and all struggle for everything."   American war planners have long assumed that the earlystage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and theirstrength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi frontline, would be the easiest part.   Despite these early successes, the mere fact that a groundcampaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bushadministration will face fresh problems growing out of themilitary situation. There are likely to be additionalAmerican prisoners of war taken, and there are signs thatPresident Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. U.S. andKuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers ofcivilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held byIraqi troops, apparently either for use as human shields orfor use later in bargaining once the war is over.   President Bush\'s political argument for going to a groundwar has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports ofwanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. U.S. officials saythat hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells now may have been set afire. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush\'s deputy national securityadviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Networkthat Iraqi troops have set fire to "large sections" of KuwaitCity.   Mr. Bush and his aides were leaning toward a militaryconclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports ofIraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light. The president andhis top aides tentatively decided on Feb. 11 that a groundwar would be necessary. The decision was made after DefenseSecretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of theJoint Chiefs of Staff, returned from a visit with militarycommanders in Saudi Arabia, administration officials say.Then, a week or so ago, Gen. Schwarzkopf secretly pickedSaturday night as the optimal time to start the offensive.   The date was unaffected by the last-ditch Soviet peaceinitiative. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S.officials now say, was that they all would have requiredlifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The Bushadministration considers the sanctions essential to keepingSaddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.   Mr. Bush forestalled further diplomatic maneuvering byissuing an ultimatum on behalf of the allies demanding thatIraq withdraw within a week, starting at noon Saturday.Administration aides said that the idea of the ultimatum wasGen. Powell\'s. He argued setting an explicit deadline forSaddam Hussein to break would, when it was broken, give theU.S. military a clear green light to proceed.   In setting out his final challenge to Saddam Hussein, Mr.Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy he beganafter the invasion llast August. After cabling world leadersabout his intention to give Saddam Hussein a final deadlineto exit Kuwait, he offered him a week to withdraw fully  , instead of the four days he originally considered, because ofobjections from some European partners that four days seemedpunitive and unrealistic.   And when he and President Gorbachev spoke about thedecision in a talk lasting nearly an hour, the President tookpains to listen to what his counterpart had to say, althoughhe already had decided that the Soviet alternative to theallied deadline was unacceptable.   Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S.ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin aspreviously planned Saturday night.   The attack was lightning quick, as allied forces punchedthrough tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward intoIraq and Kuwait. U.S. Marines were said to have breachedtroublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagonofficials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait\'s beaches had begun. Long columns of Iraqi prisoners of war could be seentrudging through the desert toward the allied rear. U.S.commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the firsthours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.   The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out ofKuwait quickly , leaving much of Iraq\'s offensive militaryequipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. It expects thattens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to theU.S. and its allies over the the next few days.   If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plungedhis country first into a fruitless eight-year-long waragainst Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S.and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving muchof his country\'s military establishment and moderninfrastructure in ruins.   Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and aninternational arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraqpays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. Thatwould undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or itsarmed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remainsin power. The American hope is that someone from within Iraq,perhaps from the army\'s professional ranks, will step forwardand push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can beginrecovering from the disaster.   Outside analysts think Saddam Hussein\'s position is indeedprecarious. "I think frankly Saddam is finished, no matterwhat happens," says Christine Helms, a Middle East scholarwho has written extensively about Iraq. "These guys simply do n\'t retire to condos over the Euphrates."   Despite the lack of any obvious successors, the Iraqileader\'s internal power base appeared to be narrowing evenbefore the war began. Some analysts say he appeared to be relying on a smaller and smaller circle of close advisers andrelatives. If that\'s true, the narrowing of his support would make it easier for someone to push him aside from within.   Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein\'s support within theIraqi military. And the U.S. now will face sharper questionsin the Arab world since it did n\'t  back  the peace proposalsworked out in Moscow. "We looked to the United States, weexpected you to have the moral edge," says Nasser Tahboub, aJerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and adoctorate in political science from Duke University. "Now wesee that edge eroded. For me, it is a great tragedy. For thefirst time in history, the U.S. has gone to war with an Araband Muslim nation, and we know a peaceful solution was inreach."   ---   Geraldine Brooks in Amman, Jordan, and Craig Forman inCairo, Egypt, contributed to this article.', 'avoid', 'WSJ910225-0066.tml']
['   Anheuser-Busch Cos. said it plans to aggressively discount its major beer brands, setting the stage for a potentially bruising price war as the maturing industry\'s growth continues to slow.    Anheuser, the world\'s largest brewer and U.S. market leader, has historically been reluctant to engage in price-cutting as a means of boosting sales volume. With the passing of the heady days of swelling industry sales, however, the once-sporadic and brief forays into discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons in the beer industry.    Over the summer, Anheuser competitors offered more and deeper discounts than industry observers have seen for a long time. Some experts now predict Anheuser\'s entry into the fray means near-term earnings trouble for all the industry players.    The St. Louis company said major rivals, Philip Morris Co.\'s Miller Brewing unit and Adolph Coors Co. "have been following a policy of continuous and deep discounting for at least the past 18 months" on their premium brands, pricing their product as much as 25 cents a 12-pack below Anheuser\'s Budweiser label in many markets. Anheuser said it\'s discounting policy basically would involve matching such moves by rivals on a market-by-market basis.    Anheuser-Busch announced its plan at the same time it reported third-quarter net income rose a lower-than-anticipated 5.2% to $238.3 million, or 83 cents a share, from $226.5 million, or 78 cents. Third-period sales were $2.49 billion, up from last year\'s $2.34 billion.    Anheuser said its new strategy -- started in some markets last month and expected to be applied soon in selected markets nationwide -- will mean lower-than-anticipated earnings for the last half of 1989 and for 1990. The projection sent Anheuser shares plunging $4.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock closed at $38.50 on heavy volume of about 3.5 million shares. Shares of Coors, the company\'s sole publicly traded major competitor, fell $1.50 apiece to $19.125 in national over-the-counter trading, apparently on investor concerns over potential fallout from the coming pricing struggle.    Anheuser noted that "beer industry sales volume is 1989 is following the trend that has characterized the last half of the \'80s, with sales volume being essentially flat" while consolidation creates fewer, bigger players.    "We cannot permit a further slowing in our volume trend," Anheuser said, adding it will take "appropriate competitive pricing actions to support our long-term market share growth strategy" for the premium brands. Anheuser said it continues to hold to its earlier-announced goal of a 50% U.S. market share by the mid-1990s.    Beneath the tepid news-release jargon lies a powerful threat from the brewing giant, which last year accounted for about 41% of all U.S. beer sales and is expected to see that grow to 42.5% in the current year. "Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar, and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl," said Joseph J. Doyle, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham amp Co. "It\'s going to get bloody."    Jerry Steinman, publisher of Beer Marketers Insights, a trade newsletter, said Anheuser\'s announcement means "everybody else in the industry is going to have a difficult time reaching their profit objectives."    Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. analyst George E. Thompson downplayed the importance of the announcement, and called any comparison between the coming beer-industry tiff and the seemingly unending "cola wars," unwarranted. Mr. Thompson calls discounting "a loser\'s game for anyone without a dominant market share," and projected that Anheuser\'s statement of intent could simply be a means of warning competitors to ease up on price-cutting or face a costly and fruitless battle.    Mr. Thompson noted that the disappointing earnings, which fell five cents a share short of his own projections, contributed to the sell-off by an edgy and currently unforgiving investing public.    But Smith Barney\'s Mr. Doyle, who yesterday trimmed his 1990 Anheuser earnings projection to $2.95 a share from $3.10, called the market\'s reaction "justified." While the third-quarter earnings were a "moderate disappointment," he said, "the real bad news is the intensity of price competition" in the premium-beer sector.    According to Mr. Steinman, the newsletter publisher, Anheuser\'s market share is nearly twice that of its nearest competitor, Miller Brewing, which had a 21.2% stake last year. It\'s followed by Stroh Brewery Co., which has agreed to sell its assets to Coors. Both Coors and Stroh have recently been ceding market share to Miller and Anheuser. ', 'hold', 'wsj_1014.tml']
['   Anheuser-Busch Cos. said it plans to aggressively discount its major beer brands, setting the stage for a potentially bruising price war as the maturing industry\'s growth continues to slow.    Anheuser, the world\'s largest brewer and U.S. market leader, has historically been reluctant to engage in price-cutting as a means of boosting sales volume. With the passing of the heady days of swelling industry sales, however, the once-sporadic and brief forays into discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons in the beer industry.    Over the summer, Anheuser competitors offered more and deeper discounts than industry observers have seen for a long time. Some experts now predict Anheuser\'s entry into the fray means near-term earnings trouble for all the industry players.    The St. Louis company said major rivals, Philip Morris Co.\'s Miller Brewing unit and Adolph Coors Co. "have been following a policy of continuous and deep discounting for at least the past 18 months" on their premium brands, pricing their product as much as 25 cents a 12-pack below Anheuser\'s Budweiser label in many markets. Anheuser said it\'s discounting policy basically would involve matching such moves by rivals on a market-by-market basis.    Anheuser-Busch announced its plan at the same time it reported third-quarter net income rose a lower-than-anticipated 5.2% to $238.3 million, or 83 cents a share, from $226.5 million, or 78 cents. Third-period sales were $2.49 billion, up from last year\'s $2.34 billion.    Anheuser said its new strategy -- started in some markets last month and expected to be applied soon in selected markets nationwide -- will mean lower-than-anticipated earnings for the last half of 1989 and for 1990. The projection sent Anheuser shares plunging $4.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock closed at $38.50 on heavy volume of about 3.5 million shares. Shares of Coors, the company\'s sole publicly traded major competitor, fell $1.50 apiece to $19.125 in national over-the-counter trading, apparently on investor concerns over potential fallout from the coming pricing struggle.    Anheuser noted that "beer industry sales volume is 1989 is following the trend that has characterized the last half of the \'80s, with sales volume being essentially flat" while consolidation creates fewer, bigger players.    "We cannot permit a further slowing in our volume trend," Anheuser said, adding it will take "appropriate competitive pricing actions to support our long-term market share growth strategy" for the premium brands. Anheuser said it continues to hold to its earlier-announced goal of a 50% U.S. market share by the mid-1990s.    Beneath the tepid news-release jargon lies a powerful threat from the brewing giant, which last year accounted for about 41% of all U.S. beer sales and is expected to see that grow to 42.5% in the current year. "Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar, and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl," said Joseph J. Doyle, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham amp Co. "It\'s going to get bloody."    Jerry Steinman, publisher of Beer Marketers Insights, a trade newsletter, said Anheuser\'s announcement means "everybody else in the industry is going to have a difficult time reaching their profit objectives."    Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. analyst George E. Thompson downplayed the importance of the announcement, and called any comparison between the coming beer-industry tiff and the seemingly unending "cola wars," unwarranted. Mr. Thompson calls discounting "a loser\'s game for anyone without a dominant market share," and projected that Anheuser\'s statement of intent could simply be a means of warning competitors to ease up on price-cutting or face a costly and fruitless battle.    Mr. Thompson noted that the disappointing earnings, which fell five cents a share short of his own projections, contributed to the sell-off by an edgy and currently unforgiving investing public.    But Smith Barney\'s Mr. Doyle, who yesterday trimmed his 1990 Anheuser earnings projection to $2.95 a share from $3.10, called the market\'s reaction "justified." While the third-quarter earnings were a "moderate disappointment," he said, "the real bad news is the intensity of price competition" in the premium-beer sector.    According to Mr. Steinman, the newsletter publisher, Anheuser\'s market share is nearly twice that of its nearest competitor, Miller Brewing, which had a 21.2% stake last year. It\'s followed by Stroh Brewery Co., which has agreed to sell its assets to Coors. Both Coors and Stroh have recently been ceding market share to Miller and Anheuser. ', 'bar', 'wsj_1014.tml']
["   Jayark Corp. agreed to pay $4 million in cash, $2 million of 12% convertible debentures, and 1.6 million common shares to acquire closely held Kofcoh Imports Inc.    In over-the-counter trading Friday, Jayark was quoted at 87.5 cents bid , down 15.625 cents. At the market price, the transaction has a total indicated value of $7.4 million.    Kofcoh is a New York holding company for Rosalco Inc., which imports furniture and other items. David L. Koffman, president and chief executive officer of Jayark, holds about 40% of Kofcoh, Jayark said.    Jayark, New York, distributes and rents audio-visual equipment and prints promotional ads for retailers. In the quarter ended July 31, Jayark had an average of 5.6 million shares outstanding.    The transaction is subject to approval by a panel of disinterested directors, the company said, adding that shareholder approval is n't needed. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0662.tml']
['   Intel Corp.\'s most powerful computer chip has flaws that could delay several computer makers\' marketing efforts, but the "bugs" are n\'t expected to hurt Intel and most computer makers.    Computer experts familiar with the flaws, found in Intel\'s 80486 chip, say the defects do n\'t affect the average user and are likely to be cleared up before most computers using the chip as their "brains" appear on the market sometime next year.    Intel said that last week a customer discovered two flaws in its 80486 microprocessor chip\'s "floating-point unit", a set of circuits that do certain calculations. On Friday, Intel began notifying customers about the bugs which cause the chip to give wrong answers for some mathematical calculations.    But while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products, most big computer makers said the flaws do n\'t affect them. "Bugs like this are just a normal part of product development," said Richard Archuleta, director of Hewlett-Packard Co.\'s advanced systems development. Hewlett announced last week that it planned to ship a computer based on the 486 chip early next year. "These bugs do n\'t affect our schedule at all," he said.    Likewise, AST Research Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. said the bugs wo n\'t delay their development of 486-based machines. "We have n\'t modified our schedules in any way," said a Sun spokesman. To switch to another vendor\'s chips, "would not definitely be an option," he said.    Nonetheless, concern about the chip may have been responsible for a decline of 87.5 cents in Intel\'s stock to $32 a share yesterday in over-the-counter trading, on volume of 3,609,800 shares, and partly responsible for a drop in Compaq\'s stock in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Wednesday. Yesterday, Compaq plunged further, closing at $100 a share, off $8.625 a share, on volume of 2,633,700 shares.    Most of Compaq\'s decline is being attributed to a third-quarter earnings report that came in at the low end of analysts\' expectations.    Intel said it had corrected the problems and would start producing bugless chips next week. "We should not be seeing any more," said Bill Rash, Intel\'s director for the 486 chip.    What\'s more, the bugs only emerge on esoteric applications such as computer-aided design and scientific calculations, he said, and then very seldom. "These errata do not affect business programs," he said. The bugs will cause problems in "specific and rare circumstances that will not occur in typical applications" such as word-processing and spreadsheets, said Michael Slater, editor of the Microprocessor Report, an industry newsletter.    Sun, Hewlett-Packard and others say Intel isn\'t wholly to blame for the snafu. The real culprits, they said, are computer makers such as IBM that have jumped the gun to unveil 486-based products. "The reason this is getting so much visibility is that some started shipping and announced early availability," said Hewlett-Packard\'s Mr. Archuleta. "You can do that but you\'re taking a risk. Those companies are paying the price for taking the risk."    In late September, IBM began shipping a plug-in card that converts its PS/2 model 70-A21 from a 80386 machine to an 80486 machine. An IBM spokeswoman said the company told customers Monday about the bugs and temporarily stopped shipping the product.    IBM has no plans to recall its add-on cards, the spokeswoman said, and could probably circumvent the bugs without long product delays. "We do n\'t look at this as a major problem for us," she said.    Compaq, which said it discovered the bugs, still plans to announce new 486 products on Nov. 6. Because of the glitch, however, the company said it does n\'t know when its machine will be commercially available. That\'s a break from Compaq tradition, because the company does n\'t announce products until they\'re actually at the dealers.    The problem is being ballyhooed, experts say, because the 486 is Intel\'s future flagship. Intel\'s microprocessors are the chips of choice in many of today\'s personal computers and the 80486 microprocessor is the spearhead of the company\'s bid to guard that spot in the next generation of machines.    "Although these sorts of bugs are not  at all uncommon, the 486 is an extremely high-profile product," said Mr. Slater, the newsletter editor.    Intel\'s 80486 chip is the Corvette of Intel\'s microprocessors, a super-fast, super-expensive chip that only the most power-hungry computer users are likely to buy for at least several years.    Unveiled last April, the chip crams 1.2 million transistors on a sliver of silicon, more than four times as many as on Intel\'s earlier model, 80386. Intel clocks the chip\'s speed at 15 million instructions per second, or MIPs. That\'s four times as fast as the 386.    Machines using the 486 are expected to challenge higher-priced work stations and minicomputers in applications such as so-called servers, which connect groups of computers together, and in computer-aided design.    But while the chip\'s speed in processing power is dazzling, it\'s real strength lies in its software inheritance. The 486 is the descendant of a long series of Intel chips that began dominating the market ever since IBM picked the 16-bit 8088 chip for its first personal computer. (A 16-bit microprocessor processes 16 pieces of data at a time and is slower than newer, 32-bit chips.) Since then, Intel has cornered a large part of the market with successive generations of 16-bit and 32-bit chips, all of which can run software written for previous models.    That\'s what will keep computer makers coming in spite of the irritation of bugs. Big personal computer makers and many makers of engineering workstations are developing 486-based machines, which are expected to reach the market early next year.    Of the big computer makers, only Apple Computer Co. bases its machines on Motorola chips instead. "The 486 is going to have a big impact on the industry," said Hewlett-Packard\'s Mr. Archuleta. "It\'s going to be the leading edge technology in personal computers for the next few years. This bug is not going to have any affect on that at all."    ---   Andy Zipser in Dallas contributed to this article. ', 'keep', 'wsj_0781.tml']
['   Intel Corp.\'s most powerful computer chip has flaws that could delay several computer makers\' marketing efforts, but the "bugs" are n\'t expected to hurt Intel and most computer makers.    Computer experts familiar with the flaws, found in Intel\'s 80486 chip, say the defects do n\'t affect the average user and are likely to be cleared up before most computers using the chip as their "brains" appear on the market sometime next year.    Intel said that last week a customer discovered two flaws in its 80486 microprocessor chip\'s "floating-point unit", a set of circuits that do certain calculations. On Friday, Intel began notifying customers about the bugs which cause the chip to give wrong answers for some mathematical calculations.    But while International Business Machines Corp. and Compaq Computer Corp. say the bugs will delay products, most big computer makers said the flaws do n\'t affect them. "Bugs like this are just a normal part of product development," said Richard Archuleta, director of Hewlett-Packard Co.\'s advanced systems development. Hewlett announced last week that it planned to ship a computer based on the 486 chip early next year. "These bugs do n\'t affect our schedule at all," he said.    Likewise, AST Research Inc. and Sun Microsystems Inc. said the bugs wo n\'t delay their development of 486-based machines. "We have n\'t modified our schedules in any way," said a Sun spokesman. To switch to another vendor\'s chips, "would not definitely be an option," he said.    Nonetheless, concern about the chip may have been responsible for a decline of 87.5 cents in Intel\'s stock to $32 a share yesterday in over-the-counter trading, on volume of 3,609,800 shares, and partly responsible for a drop in Compaq\'s stock in New York Stock Exchange composite trading on Wednesday. Yesterday, Compaq plunged further, closing at $100 a share, off $8.625 a share, on volume of 2,633,700 shares.    Most of Compaq\'s decline is being attributed to a third-quarter earnings report that came in at the low end of analysts\' expectations.    Intel said it had corrected the problems and would start producing bugless chips next week. "We should not be seeing any more," said Bill Rash, Intel\'s director for the 486 chip.    What\'s more, the bugs only emerge on esoteric applications such as computer-aided design and scientific calculations, he said, and then very seldom. "These errata do not affect business programs," he said. The bugs will cause problems in "specific and rare circumstances that will not occur in typical applications" such as word-processing and spreadsheets, said Michael Slater, editor of the Microprocessor Report, an industry newsletter.    Sun, Hewlett-Packard and others say Intel isn\'t wholly to blame for the snafu. The real culprits, they said, are computer makers such as IBM that have jumped the gun to unveil 486-based products. "The reason this is getting so much visibility is that some started shipping and announced early availability," said Hewlett-Packard\'s Mr. Archuleta. "You can do that but you\'re taking a risk. Those companies are paying the price for taking the risk."    In late September, IBM began shipping a plug-in card that converts its PS/2 model 70-A21 from a 80386 machine to an 80486 machine. An IBM spokeswoman said the company told customers Monday about the bugs and temporarily stopped shipping the product.    IBM has no plans to recall its add-on cards, the spokeswoman said, and could probably circumvent the bugs without long product delays. "We do n\'t look at this as a major problem for us," she said.    Compaq, which said it discovered the bugs, still plans to announce new 486 products on Nov. 6. Because of the glitch, however, the company said it does n\'t know when its machine will be commercially available. That\'s a break from Compaq tradition, because the company does n\'t announce products until they\'re actually at the dealers.    The problem is being ballyhooed, experts say, because the 486 is Intel\'s future flagship. Intel\'s microprocessors are the chips of choice in many of today\'s personal computers and the 80486 microprocessor is the spearhead of the company\'s bid to guard that spot in the next generation of machines.    "Although these sorts of bugs are not  at all uncommon, the 486 is an extremely high-profile product," said Mr. Slater, the newsletter editor.    Intel\'s 80486 chip is the Corvette of Intel\'s microprocessors, a super-fast, super-expensive chip that only the most power-hungry computer users are likely to buy for at least several years.    Unveiled last April, the chip crams 1.2 million transistors on a sliver of silicon, more than four times as many as on Intel\'s earlier model, 80386. Intel clocks the chip\'s speed at 15 million instructions per second, or MIPs. That\'s four times as fast as the 386.    Machines using the 486 are expected to challenge higher-priced work stations and minicomputers in applications such as so-called servers, which connect groups of computers together, and in computer-aided design.    But while the chip\'s speed in processing power is dazzling, it\'s real strength lies in its software inheritance. The 486 is the descendant of a long series of Intel chips that began dominating the market ever since IBM picked the 16-bit 8088 chip for its first personal computer. (A 16-bit microprocessor processes 16 pieces of data at a time and is slower than newer, 32-bit chips.) Since then, Intel has cornered a large part of the market with successive generations of 16-bit and 32-bit chips, all of which can run software written for previous models.    That\'s what will keep computer makers coming in spite of the irritation of bugs. Big personal computer makers and many makers of engineering workstations are developing 486-based machines, which are expected to reach the market early next year.    Of the big computer makers, only Apple Computer Co. bases its machines on Motorola chips instead. "The 486 is going to have a big impact on the industry," said Hewlett-Packard\'s Mr. Archuleta. "It\'s going to be the leading edge technology in personal computers for the next few years. This bug is not going to have any affect on that at all."    ---   Andy Zipser in Dallas contributed to this article. ', 'stop', 'wsj_0781.tml']
['   Du Pont Co. reported that third-quarter profit grew a robust 19% from a year ago on the strength of the company\'s operations in various chemicals and fibers, and in petroleum.    Du Pont also raised its quarterly dividend to $1.20 a share from $1.05, a change that will increase the annualized payout to shareholders by some $140 million.    Du Pont, unlike companies hurt badly by sharp price declines for basic chemicals and plastics, is benefiting from its broad range of businesses. The profit gain was made despite a weakening in the housing market, for which the company is a supplier, and a strengthening in the dollar, which lowers the value of overseas earnings when they are translated into dollars.    The Wilmington, Del., company reported net of $547 million, or $2.36 a share, which was in line with Wall Street estimates. In the year-earlier period, the company earned $461 million, or $1.91 a share. Sales in the latest quarter were $8.59 billion, up 9.4% from $7.85 billion.    The dividend increase was Du Pont\'s second this year, an affirmation of statements by top executives that they intend to increase rewards to shareholders. "We have n\'t benefited the shareholder as much as we need to," said Edgar Woolard Jr., Du Pont\'s chairman and chief executive officer, in an interview several months before he entered his current position in April.    The largest beneficiary will be Seagram Co., which owns about 23% of Du Pont. A spokesman for Seagram, the Montreal wine and spirits concern controlled by the Bronfman family, said the company will post additional pretax profit of about $33 million a year because of the additional Du Pont dividends.    Du Pont also announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split, although the initial higher dividend will be paid on pre-split shares. Du Pont\'s stock rose $2.50 a share to close at $117.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. Seagram closed at $84.75, up 12.5 cents a share in Big Board trading.    Leading the gains for Du Pont in the latest quarter was its industrial products segment, where profit soared to $155 million from $99 million a year earlier. The company benefited from continued strong demand and higher selling prices for titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paints, paper and plastics.    James Fallon, a New Providence, N.J., marketing consultant to the chemicals industry, says Du Pont still holds an edge in making the pigment because the company was "first in with the technology" to lower costs. He said Du Pont holds about 23% of the world-wide market, the largest single share, at a time when growing uses for the pigment have kept it in tight supply, although others are now adding low-cost production capacity.    Profit climbed to $98 million from $71 million in the petroleum segment, as Du Pont\'s Conoco Inc. oil company was helped by crude oil prices higher than a year ago and by higher natural gas prices and volume.    In the diversifed businesses segment, which includes herbicides, profit grew to $64 million from $27 million. A spokesman said herbicide use in some areas of the U.S. was delayed earlier in the year by heavy rains, thus increasing sales in the third quarter.    In the fibers segment, profit rose to $180 million from $155 million, a gain Du Pont attributed to higher demand in the U.S. for most textile products.    Two segments posted lower earnings for the quarter. Profit from coal fell to $41 million from $58 million, partly because of a miners\' strike. And profit from polymers dropped to $107 million from $122 million amid what Du Pont called lower demand and selling prices in certain packaging and industrial markets.    For the nine months, Du Pont earned $2 billion, or $8.46 a share, up 18% from $1.69 billion, or $7.03 a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 10% to $26.54 billion from $24.05 billion.    The increased dividend will be paid Dec. 14 to holders of record Nov. 15. The stock split, which is subject to holder approval, would be paid on a still unspecified date in January to holders of record Dec. 21. ', 'keep', 'wsj_0918.tml']
['   Du Pont Co. reported that third-quarter profit grew a robust 19% from a year ago on the strength of the company\'s operations in various chemicals and fibers, and in petroleum.    Du Pont also raised its quarterly dividend to $1.20 a share from $1.05, a change that will increase the annualized payout to shareholders by some $140 million.    Du Pont, unlike companies hurt badly by sharp price declines for basic chemicals and plastics, is benefiting from its broad range of businesses. The profit gain was made despite a weakening in the housing market, for which the company is a supplier, and a strengthening in the dollar, which lowers the value of overseas earnings when they are translated into dollars.    The Wilmington, Del., company reported net of $547 million, or $2.36 a share, which was in line with Wall Street estimates. In the year-earlier period, the company earned $461 million, or $1.91 a share. Sales in the latest quarter were $8.59 billion, up 9.4% from $7.85 billion.    The dividend increase was Du Pont\'s second this year, an affirmation of statements by top executives that they intend to increase rewards to shareholders. "We have n\'t benefited the shareholder as much as we need to," said Edgar Woolard Jr., Du Pont\'s chairman and chief executive officer, in an interview several months before he entered his current position in April.    The largest beneficiary will be Seagram Co., which owns about 23% of Du Pont. A spokesman for Seagram, the Montreal wine and spirits concern controlled by the Bronfman family, said the company will post additional pretax profit of about $33 million a year because of the additional Du Pont dividends.    Du Pont also announced plans for a 3-for-1 stock split, although the initial higher dividend will be paid on pre-split shares. Du Pont\'s stock rose $2.50 a share to close at $117.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. Seagram closed at $84.75, up 12.5 cents a share in Big Board trading.    Leading the gains for Du Pont in the latest quarter was its industrial products segment, where profit soared to $155 million from $99 million a year earlier. The company benefited from continued strong demand and higher selling prices for titanium dioxide, a white pigment used in paints, paper and plastics.    James Fallon, a New Providence, N.J., marketing consultant to the chemicals industry, says Du Pont still holds an edge in making the pigment because the company was "first in with the technology" to lower costs. He said Du Pont holds about 23% of the world-wide market, the largest single share, at a time when growing uses for the pigment have kept it in tight supply, although others are now adding low-cost production capacity.    Profit climbed to $98 million from $71 million in the petroleum segment, as Du Pont\'s Conoco Inc. oil company was helped by crude oil prices higher than a year ago and by higher natural gas prices and volume.    In the diversifed businesses segment, which includes herbicides, profit grew to $64 million from $27 million. A spokesman said herbicide use in some areas of the U.S. was delayed earlier in the year by heavy rains, thus increasing sales in the third quarter.    In the fibers segment, profit rose to $180 million from $155 million, a gain Du Pont attributed to higher demand in the U.S. for most textile products.    Two segments posted lower earnings for the quarter. Profit from coal fell to $41 million from $58 million, partly because of a miners\' strike. And profit from polymers dropped to $107 million from $122 million amid what Du Pont called lower demand and selling prices in certain packaging and industrial markets.    For the nine months, Du Pont earned $2 billion, or $8.46 a share, up 18% from $1.69 billion, or $7.03 a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 10% to $26.54 billion from $24.05 billion.    The increased dividend will be paid Dec. 14 to holders of record Nov. 15. The stock split, which is subject to holder approval, would be paid on a still unspecified date in January to holders of record Dec. 21. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0918.tml']
['   Cineplex Odeon Corp. directors said the company\'s chairman and chief executive, Garth Drabinsky, is considering bidding 780.6 million Canadian dollars (US$666 million) to acquire the company.    The board said Mr. Drabinsky and Vice Chairman Myron Gottlieb are negotiating financing before offering C$16.40 a share to acquire all of Cineplex\'s shares outstanding. The directors added that the two executives have n\'t reached a final decision to proceed with a bid and that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders.    The directors said if Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb mail an offer to shareholders by Nov. 22, it will reimburse them a maximum of C$8.5 million for expenses related to a bid.    "We consider that his bid is an acceptable bid," said Sandra Kolber, spokeswoman for the independent directors\' committee appointed last May to solicit and review bids for the company in the wake of a dispute between Mr. Drabinsky and Cineplex\'s major shareholder, MCA Inc.    MCA and Cineplex\'s other major shareholder, Montreal-based financier Charles Bronfman and his associates, have agreed to tender their holdings to an offer by Mr. Drabinsky unless a higher offer is made by another bidder. MCA holds half of Cineplex\'s equity and 33% of its voting rights through restricted voting shares, while Bronfman interests hold about 24% of the company\'s equity.    Ms. Kolber said the committee had received other bids. She declined to identify other bidders but said Mr. Drabinsky\'s offer "is all cash, and it\'s for all of the company." Several Cineplex analysts have speculated that outside bids received by the committee were either disappointingly low or for only part of the company.    "All this has really established is that MCA and the Bronfmans have agreed on a price at which they can be bought out," said Jeffery Logsdon, an analyst with Crowell, Weedon in Los Angeles. "If a bid materializes at that price, shareholders will have every reason to be glad, but the question of financing still remains."    Last April, Mr. Drabinsky and a group of financial backers planned to acquire up to 30.2% of Cineplex for C$17.50 a share from Bronfman associates. Mr. Drabinsky, who would have had the right to vote those shares for two years, said the purchase, subsequently rejected by regulators, was aimed at consolidating his control of the company. MCA strongly opposed the Drabinsky group\'s move.    The directors did n\'t indicate the source of financing for Mr. Drabinsky\'s new proposal, but said MCA and the Bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $57 million and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City, Calif., if Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer.    "This is being done at the suggestion of {Mr. Drabinsky} and to accommodate him, to facilitate his financing arrangements," Ms. Kolber said.    In addition, the directors said if a bid by Mr. Drabinsky is successful, Cineplex expects Rank Organisation PLC to acquire the 51% of Cineplex\'s Film House unit it doesn\'t own, and provide Mr. Drabinsky with additional loan financing.    Michael Gifford, Rank\'s chief executive, said the British theater chain\'s total involvement "would n\'t exceed $100 million" but declined to give a breakdown between the loan financing and the proposed Film House purchase.    Cineplex shareholders responded coolly to yesterday\'s announcement. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Cineplex closed at $11, down 25 cents, with more than a million shares changing hands. On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Cineplex closed at C$12.875, off 37.5 Canadian cents, well below the C$16.40 level.    "Where\'s the bid?" asked Pierre Panet-Raymond, an analyst and broker with Toronto securities dealer McDermid St. Lawrence Ltd. Mr. Panet-Raymond said he does n\'t think Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are "anywhere close" to arranging financing and that investors will need a solid offer before the stock begins to rise again.    Mr. Drabinsky could n\'t be reached for comment. ', 'restrict', 'wsj_0938.tml']
['   Cineplex Odeon Corp. directors said the company\'s chairman and chief executive, Garth Drabinsky, is considering bidding 780.6 million Canadian dollars (US$666 million) to acquire the company.    The board said Mr. Drabinsky and Vice Chairman Myron Gottlieb are negotiating financing before offering C$16.40 a share to acquire all of Cineplex\'s shares outstanding. The directors added that the two executives have n\'t reached a final decision to proceed with a bid and that until an offer is made the board will continue seeking higher offers from other bidders.    The directors said if Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb mail an offer to shareholders by Nov. 22, it will reimburse them a maximum of C$8.5 million for expenses related to a bid.    "We consider that his bid is an acceptable bid," said Sandra Kolber, spokeswoman for the independent directors\' committee appointed last May to solicit and review bids for the company in the wake of a dispute between Mr. Drabinsky and Cineplex\'s major shareholder, MCA Inc.    MCA and Cineplex\'s other major shareholder, Montreal-based financier Charles Bronfman and his associates, have agreed to tender their holdings to an offer by Mr. Drabinsky unless a higher offer is made by another bidder. MCA holds half of Cineplex\'s equity and 33% of its voting rights through restricted voting shares, while Bronfman interests hold about 24% of the company\'s equity.    Ms. Kolber said the committee had received other bids. She declined to identify other bidders but said Mr. Drabinsky\'s offer "is all cash, and it\'s for all of the company." Several Cineplex analysts have speculated that outside bids received by the committee were either disappointingly low or for only part of the company.    "All this has really established is that MCA and the Bronfmans have agreed on a price at which they can be bought out," said Jeffery Logsdon, an analyst with Crowell, Weedon in Los Angeles. "If a bid materializes at that price, shareholders will have every reason to be glad, but the question of financing still remains."    Last April, Mr. Drabinsky and a group of financial backers planned to acquire up to 30.2% of Cineplex for C$17.50 a share from Bronfman associates. Mr. Drabinsky, who would have had the right to vote those shares for two years, said the purchase, subsequently rejected by regulators, was aimed at consolidating his control of the company. MCA strongly opposed the Drabinsky group\'s move.    The directors did n\'t indicate the source of financing for Mr. Drabinsky\'s new proposal, but said MCA and the Bronfman associates agreed in principle to buy for $57 million and then lease back to Cineplex its 18-screen theater complex in Universal City, Calif., if Mr. Drabinsky succeeds in an offer.    "This is being done at the suggestion of {Mr. Drabinsky} and to accommodate him, to facilitate his financing arrangements," Ms. Kolber said.    In addition, the directors said if a bid by Mr. Drabinsky is successful, Cineplex expects Rank Organisation PLC to acquire the 51% of Cineplex\'s Film House unit it doesn\'t own, and provide Mr. Drabinsky with additional loan financing.    Michael Gifford, Rank\'s chief executive, said the British theater chain\'s total involvement "would n\'t exceed $100 million" but declined to give a breakdown between the loan financing and the proposed Film House purchase.    Cineplex shareholders responded coolly to yesterday\'s announcement. In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Cineplex closed at $11, down 25 cents, with more than a million shares changing hands. On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Cineplex closed at C$12.875, off 37.5 Canadian cents, well below the C$16.40 level.    "Where\'s the bid?" asked Pierre Panet-Raymond, an analyst and broker with Toronto securities dealer McDermid St. Lawrence Ltd. Mr. Panet-Raymond said he does n\'t think Messrs. Drabinsky and Gottlieb are "anywhere close" to arranging financing and that investors will need a solid offer before the stock begins to rise again.    Mr. Drabinsky could n\'t be reached for comment. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0938.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'keep', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'protect', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'save', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'stop', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'block', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'hold', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   Security Pacific Corp. has set its sights on buying its second bank holding company this year.    Security said it signed a letter of intent to purchase La Jolla Bancorp, agreeing to pay $15 of its own stock for each share of La Jolla. Based on the current number of La Jolla shares, that gives the transaction a value of $104 million.    La Jolla is the parent company of La Jolla Bank amp Trust Co., which has 12 branches in San Diego County. As of Sept. 30, the bank had assets of $511 million and deposits of $469 million, Security Pacific said.    Earlier this month, Security Pacific, which is among the 10 largest bank holding companies in the U.S., completed the acquisition of San Diego-based Southwest Bancorp. ', 'hold', 'wsj_0706.tml']
["   Shoney's Inc. said it will report a write-off of $2.5 million, or seven cents a share, for its fourth quarter ended yesterday. The restaurant operator cited transaction costs from its 1988 recapitalization as a result of a $160 million restructuring of its bank debt.    The write-off will be reported as an extraordinary item in the company's 1989 operating results.    In addition, the effective interest rate on the $410 million of total remaining bank debt after the restructuring is 10.66%. The combined effect of these changes is expected to save the company about $4 million in interest expenses next year, or six cents a share.    Shoney's said the latest restructuring affected bank indebtedness that was incurred to finance $585 million of the company's $728 million recapitalization that took place in 1988.    The company has made payments of $175 million against the original $585 million of bank debt incurred in connection with the recapitalization. These payments consisted of $54 million in scheduled payments and $121 million in prepayments, funded by $82.8 million from operating cash flow, zero-coupon subordinated debt and assets sales. ", 'save', 'wsj_0667.tml']
["   Norton Co. said net income for the third quarter fell 6% to $20.6 million, or 98 cents a share, from $22 million, or $1.03 a share.    Operating profit for the abrasives, engineering materials and petroleum services concern was $19.2 million, or 91 cents a share, up 3% from $18.7 million, or 87 cents a share.    The company had a tax credit of $1.4 million. In the year-earlier quarter, the tax credit was $3.3 million. Sales rose 8% to $368.5 million from $340.7 million.    Operating profit in the company's abrasives segment rose 16% while operating profit in the engineering materials segment rose 2%. However, the company's petroleum services segment, while profitable, was hurt by high financing costs associated with the company's buy-out of a 50% stake in Eastman Christensen Co. from Texas Eastern Corp. last June. Norton and Texas Eastern had each held a 50% stake in Eastman in a joint venture.    Norton announced earlier this month that it was exploring the possible sale of all or part of Eastman Christensen.    For the nine months, Norton had net of $81.2 million, or $3.87 a share, and a tax credit of $4.4 million. In the year-earlier period, the company had net of $77.2 million, or $3.68 a share, and a tax credit of $7.7 million.    Norton had operating profit of $76.8 million, or $3.66 a share, up 11% from $69.5 million, or $3.31 a share.    Sales rose 8% to $1.15 billion from $1.06 billion. ", 'hold', 'wsj_0760.tml']
['   This has n\'t been Kellogg Co.\'s year. The oat-bran craze has cost the world\'s largest cereal maker market share. The company\'s president quit suddenly. And now Kellogg is indefinitely suspending work on what was to be a $1 billion cereal plant.    The company said it was delaying construction because of current market conditions. But the Memphis, Tenn., facility wasn\'t to begin turning out product until 1993, so the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well.    Kellogg, which has n\'t been as successful in capitalizing on the public\'s health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc., has been losing share in the $6 billion ready-to-eat cereal market. Kellogg\'s current share is believed to be slightly under 40% while General Mills\' share is about 27%.    Led by its oat-based Cheerios line, General Mills has gained an estimated 2% share so far this year, mostly at the expense of Kellogg. Each share point is worth about $60 million in sales.    Analysts say much of Kellogg\'s erosion has been in such core brands as Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies and Frosted Flakes, which represent nearly one-third of its sales volume. Kellogg is so anxious to turn around Corn Flakes sales that it soon will begin selling boxes for as little as 99 cents, trade sources say.    "Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg\'s corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats," says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire. "They are not  a happy group of people at Battle Creek right now." Kellogg is based in Battle Creek, Mich., a city that calls itself the breakfast capital of the world.    Another analyst, John C. Maxwell Jr. of Wheat, First Securities in Richmond, Va., recently went to a "sell" recommendation on Kellogg stock, which closed Friday at $71.75, down 75 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. "I do n\'t think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year," he said. "Kellogg\'s main problem is life style. People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that\'s `healthy\' for you -- oats, bran." Mr. Maxwell said he would n\'t be surprised if, over the next two years or so, General Mills\' share increased to 30% or more.    In announcing the plant delay, Kellogg Chairman William E. LaMothe said, "Cereal volume growth in the U.S. has not met our expectations for 1989." He said construction would n\'t resume until market conditions warrant it.    Kellogg indicated that it has room to grow without adding facilities. The company has five other U.S. plants, including a modern facility at its Battle Creek headquarters known as Building 100, which is to add bran-processing and rice-processing capacity next year.    General Mills, meanwhile , finds itself constrained from boosting sales further because its plants are operating at capacity. A large plant in Covington, Ga., is to come on line next year.    A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was " pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction. Initial cost estimates for the plant, which was to have been built in phases, ranged from $1 billion to $1.2 billion.    A company spokesman said it was "possible, but highly unlikely," that the plant might never be built. "As we regain our leadership level where we have been, and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity, we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan," he said.    The new facility was to have been the world\'s most advanced cereal manufacturing plant, and Kellogg\'s largest construction project. The company had retained the Fluor Daniel unit of Fluor Corp. as general contractor.    But in recent weeks, construction-industry sources reported that early preparation work was slowing at the 185-acre site. Subcontractors said they were told that equipment orders would be delayed. Fluor Daniel already has reassigned most of its work crew, the sources said.    Last Friday\'s announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company\'s plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic. Until recently, Kellogg had been telling its sales force and Wall Street that by 1992 it intended to achieve a 50% share of market, measured in dollar volume.    Although he called current market conditions "highly competitive," Mr. LaMothe, Kellogg\'s chairman and chief executive officer, forecast an earnings increase for the full year. Last year, the company earned $480.4 million, or $3.90 a share, on sales of $4.3 billion.    As expected, Kellogg reported lower third-quarter earnings. Net fell 16% to $123.1 million, or $1.02 a share, from $145.7 million, or $1.18 a share. Sales rose 4.8% to $1.20 billion from $1.14 billion.    The company had a one-time charge of $14.8 million in the latest quarter covering the disposition of certain assets. The company would n\'t elaborate, citing competitive reasons. ', 'constrain', 'wsj_0610.tml']
['   CMS ENERGY Corp. said management would recommend to its board today that its common stock dividend be reinstated at a "modest level" later this year. The Dearborn, Mich., energy company stopped paying a dividend in the third quarter of 1984 because of troubles at its Midland nuclear plant. In addition, CMS reported third-quarter net of $68.2 million, or 83 cents a share, up from $66.8 million, or 81 cents a share, a year ago. ', 'stop', 'wsj_0805.tml']
['   Market makers in Nasdaq over-the-counter stocks are adding their voices to the swelling chorus of complaints about program trading.    Their motivation, however , has a strong practical aspect: Program trading is hazardous to their paychecks. The most controversial form of program trading, stock-index arbitrage, is " making it tough for traders to make money," declares Robert Antolini, head of OTC trading at Donaldson, Lufkin amp Jenrette.    Stock-index arbitrage -- the computer-guided buying and selling of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures to profit from fleeting price discrepancies -- affects the OTC market directly through the 31 stocks included in Standard amp Poor\'s 500-stock index. The SampP 500 is often used in arbitrage strategies.    The portion of OTC volume attributable to program trading isn\'t known, as it is on the New York Stock Exchange, where it amounted to more than 13% in September. Estimates from traders put it at less than 5% of Nasdaq\'s average daily volume of roughly 133 million shares.    Other market-maker gripes: Program trading also causes the Nasdaq Composite Index to lose ground against other segments of the stock market. Because of program trading it is more difficult to trade many OTC stocks without sharp price moves, a condition known as illiquidity. Moreover, the price volatility that is amplified by program trading is undercutting efforts to woo individual investors back to an OTC market that sorely misses them.    Some of these problems are neither new nor unique to the OTC market. But the big, often tumultuous slide in stock prices this month has turned some of those who have been profiting from the practice against it.    Peter DaPuzzo, head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton, acknowledges that he wasn\'t troubled by program trading when it began in the pre-crash bull market because it added liquidity and people were pleased to see stock prices rising.    "We were n\'t  as concerned until they became sell programs," says Mr. DaPuzzo, who now thinks it adds unnecessary volatility. Shearson Lehman, however , executes program trades for clients.    Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and Kidder Peabody, in addition to Shearson, do program-trade OTC stocks. Shearson, Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs say they do so only for customers, however. Kidder Peabody does program trading for its own as well as clients\' accounts.    Of course, there were sell programs in past years, too, but they seem to hurt market makers more painfully these days. That\'s largely because of defensive measures they adopted after the 1987 crash, when individual investors fled the market and trading activity dwindled. Market makers, to cut costs, slashed inventories of stocks they keep on hand to sell investors when other holders are n\'t selling.    And to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further, market makers became quicker to lower price quotes when sell programs are in progress. On days when prices are tumbling, they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will. In such an environment, market makers can suffer huge losses both on trades made that day at steadily dropping prices and in the value of their inventories of shares.    "It makes no sense for us to put money at risk when you know you\'re going to lose," says Mr. Antolini, of Donaldson Lufkin.    But this skittishness, Mr. Antolini says, is creating liquidity problems in certain OTC stocks. "It\'s harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in because some market makers do n\'t want to { take the orders}. No one has big positions and no one wants to take big risks."    Joseph Hardiman, president of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which oversees trading on Nasdaq, agrees that program trading is hurting the market\'s efforts to bring back small investors. But, he observes, while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down, they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher. "Sometimes {traders} lose sight of that," he says.    The OTC stocks in the SampP 500 include Nasdaq\'s biggest, such as Apple Computer, MCI Communications, Tele-Communications and Liz Claiborne. These big stocks greatly influence the Nasdaq Composite Index. When the computers say "sell," the composite tumbles as well as the Dow Jones Industrial Average.    The problem, market makers say, is that while the industrial average and the SampP 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in, the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind.    Eight trading days after Oct. 12, the day before the stock market plunge, for instance, the Nasdaq Composite had fallen 4.3%, compared with 3.3% for the SampP 500, 3.5% for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index and 3.6% for the industrial average. This gap eventually closes, but slowly. Three days later, as of Friday\'s close, the Nasdaq Composite was down 6%, compared with 5.9% for the industrial average, 5.7% for the SampP 500 and 5.8% for the Big Board Composite.    The main reason for this lag is that individual investors own 65% of the OTC market\'s capitalization, according to Mr. Hardiman, much more than on the Big Board. Such investors tend to be more cautious than institutional investors are about re-entering the market after massive selloffs, market makers say.    ---   Friday\'s Market Activity    The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 5.39, or 1.2% to 452.76 on Friday. For the week, the index dropped 3.8%.    Weakness in big technology stocks hurt the composite as well as the Nasdaq 100 Index, which fell 1.4%, or 6.43, on Friday, to 437.68. The Nasdaq Financial Index lost about 1%, or 3.95, to 448.80.    Friday\'s trading volume totaled 132.8 million shares. The average daily share turnover for October is almost 148 million shares.    LIN Broadcasting surged 4 5/8 to 112 5/8; LIN and BellSouth sweetened their merger agreement in an attempt to keep shareholders from tendering their shares to McCaw Cellular Communications. McCaw, which dropped 2 1/2 to 37 3/4, has offered $125 a share for a majority of LIN\'s shares.    The revised LIN-BellSouth agreement boosts the dollar amount of the special dividend LIN promises to pay shareholders. LIN now plans to dole out $42 a share in cash, up from the earlier $20 amount.    Intel eased 1/8 to 31 7/8. The semiconductor concern said the interruption in shipment of its 80486 computer chip will be brief and have little impact on the company\'s earnings. The stock fell 7/8 Thursday amid concerns over problems discovered with the chip. Intel told analysts that the company will resume shipments of the chips within two to three weeks.    Weisfield\'s rocketed 9 1/2 to 39 after the jewelry store operator said it is in preliminary discussions, with a party it would n\'t identify, regarding the possible acquisition of the company.    Starpointe Savings Bank rose 3 to 20 after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved Dime Savings Bank of New York\'s $21-a-share acquisition of Starpointe.    Kirschner Medical fell 4 to 15. The company said its third-quarter earnings will probably be lower than the 16 cents a share it reported last year, despite a rise in the company\'s revenue. Kirschner earned $376,000 on revenue of $14.5 million in the 1988 quarter. The company blamed a number of factors for the earnings decline, including softer sales of joint-implants. ', 'keep', 'wsj_0585.tml']
['   Market makers in Nasdaq over-the-counter stocks are adding their voices to the swelling chorus of complaints about program trading.    Their motivation, however , has a strong practical aspect: Program trading is hazardous to their paychecks. The most controversial form of program trading, stock-index arbitrage, is " making it tough for traders to make money," declares Robert Antolini, head of OTC trading at Donaldson, Lufkin amp Jenrette.    Stock-index arbitrage -- the computer-guided buying and selling of stocks with offsetting trades in stock-index futures to profit from fleeting price discrepancies -- affects the OTC market directly through the 31 stocks included in Standard amp Poor\'s 500-stock index. The SampP 500 is often used in arbitrage strategies.    The portion of OTC volume attributable to program trading isn\'t known, as it is on the New York Stock Exchange, where it amounted to more than 13% in September. Estimates from traders put it at less than 5% of Nasdaq\'s average daily volume of roughly 133 million shares.    Other market-maker gripes: Program trading also causes the Nasdaq Composite Index to lose ground against other segments of the stock market. Because of program trading it is more difficult to trade many OTC stocks without sharp price moves, a condition known as illiquidity. Moreover, the price volatility that is amplified by program trading is undercutting efforts to woo individual investors back to an OTC market that sorely misses them.    Some of these problems are neither new nor unique to the OTC market. But the big, often tumultuous slide in stock prices this month has turned some of those who have been profiting from the practice against it.    Peter DaPuzzo, head of retail equity trading at Shearson Lehman Hutton, acknowledges that he wasn\'t troubled by program trading when it began in the pre-crash bull market because it added liquidity and people were pleased to see stock prices rising.    "We were n\'t  as concerned until they became sell programs," says Mr. DaPuzzo, who now thinks it adds unnecessary volatility. Shearson Lehman, however , executes program trades for clients.    Merrill Lynch, Goldman Sachs and Kidder Peabody, in addition to Shearson, do program-trade OTC stocks. Shearson, Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs say they do so only for customers, however. Kidder Peabody does program trading for its own as well as clients\' accounts.    Of course, there were sell programs in past years, too, but they seem to hurt market makers more painfully these days. That\'s largely because of defensive measures they adopted after the 1987 crash, when individual investors fled the market and trading activity dwindled. Market makers, to cut costs, slashed inventories of stocks they keep on hand to sell investors when other holders are n\'t selling.    And to protect their reduced capital investment from eroding further, market makers became quicker to lower price quotes when sell programs are in progress. On days when prices are tumbling, they must be willing to buy shares from sellers when no one else will. In such an environment, market makers can suffer huge losses both on trades made that day at steadily dropping prices and in the value of their inventories of shares.    "It makes no sense for us to put money at risk when you know you\'re going to lose," says Mr. Antolini, of Donaldson Lufkin.    But this skittishness, Mr. Antolini says, is creating liquidity problems in certain OTC stocks. "It\'s harder to sell stocks when the sell programs come in because some market makers do n\'t want to { take the orders}. No one has big positions and no one wants to take big risks."    Joseph Hardiman, president of the National Association of Securities Dealers, which oversees trading on Nasdaq, agrees that program trading is hurting the market\'s efforts to bring back small investors. But, he observes, while makers suffer losses when program trading drags the market down, they also make money when program trading pushes the prices higher. "Sometimes {traders} lose sight of that," he says.    The OTC stocks in the SampP 500 include Nasdaq\'s biggest, such as Apple Computer, MCI Communications, Tele-Communications and Liz Claiborne. These big stocks greatly influence the Nasdaq Composite Index. When the computers say "sell," the composite tumbles as well as the Dow Jones Industrial Average.    The problem, market makers say, is that while the industrial average and the SampP 500 usually recover as buy programs kick in, the Nasdaq Composite frequently is left behind.    Eight trading days after Oct. 12, the day before the stock market plunge, for instance, the Nasdaq Composite had fallen 4.3%, compared with 3.3% for the SampP 500, 3.5% for the New York Stock Exchange Composite Index and 3.6% for the industrial average. This gap eventually closes, but slowly. Three days later, as of Friday\'s close, the Nasdaq Composite was down 6%, compared with 5.9% for the industrial average, 5.7% for the SampP 500 and 5.8% for the Big Board Composite.    The main reason for this lag is that individual investors own 65% of the OTC market\'s capitalization, according to Mr. Hardiman, much more than on the Big Board. Such investors tend to be more cautious than institutional investors are about re-entering the market after massive selloffs, market makers say.    ---   Friday\'s Market Activity    The Nasdaq Composite Index tumbled 5.39, or 1.2% to 452.76 on Friday. For the week, the index dropped 3.8%.    Weakness in big technology stocks hurt the composite as well as the Nasdaq 100 Index, which fell 1.4%, or 6.43, on Friday, to 437.68. The Nasdaq Financial Index lost about 1%, or 3.95, to 448.80.    Friday\'s trading volume totaled 132.8 million shares. The average daily share turnover for October is almost 148 million shares.    LIN Broadcasting surged 4 5/8 to 112 5/8; LIN and BellSouth sweetened their merger agreement in an attempt to keep shareholders from tendering their shares to McCaw Cellular Communications. McCaw, which dropped 2 1/2 to 37 3/4, has offered $125 a share for a majority of LIN\'s shares.    The revised LIN-BellSouth agreement boosts the dollar amount of the special dividend LIN promises to pay shareholders. LIN now plans to dole out $42 a share in cash, up from the earlier $20 amount.    Intel eased 1/8 to 31 7/8. The semiconductor concern said the interruption in shipment of its 80486 computer chip will be brief and have little impact on the company\'s earnings. The stock fell 7/8 Thursday amid concerns over problems discovered with the chip. Intel told analysts that the company will resume shipments of the chips within two to three weeks.    Weisfield\'s rocketed 9 1/2 to 39 after the jewelry store operator said it is in preliminary discussions, with a party it would n\'t identify, regarding the possible acquisition of the company.    Starpointe Savings Bank rose 3 to 20 after the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved Dime Savings Bank of New York\'s $21-a-share acquisition of Starpointe.    Kirschner Medical fell 4 to 15. The company said its third-quarter earnings will probably be lower than the 16 cents a share it reported last year, despite a rise in the company\'s revenue. Kirschner earned $376,000 on revenue of $14.5 million in the 1988 quarter. The company blamed a number of factors for the earnings decline, including softer sales of joint-implants. ', 'protect', 'wsj_0585.tml']
