['   Nashua Corp., rumored a potential takeover target for six months, said that a Dutch company has sought U.S. approval to buy up to 25% of Nashua\'s shares.    Nashua immediately responded by strengthening a poison-pill plan and saying it will buy back up to one million of its shares, or 10.4% of the 9.6 million outstanding.    Nashua, whose major business is selling copiers, facsimile machines and related supplies, said Reiss amp Co. B.V. of the Netherlands filed a request with the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act for permission to buy more than $15 million of Nashua\'s stock but less than 25%.    Previously, an affiliate of Unicorp Canada disclosed a stake of less than 5% in Nashua, according to Daniel M. Junius, Nashua\'s treasurer.    Nashua\'s stock has fluctuated sharply on takeover speculation, rising to a high for the year of $42.875 a share in June from $29.75 in March. But the company has had weak results so far this year, with earnings declining 43% to $13.7 million, or $1.43 a share, on a 4% decline in revenue to $713.5 million through the first nine months of the year.Its stock has slumped recently , closing unchanged Friday at $29 a share in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange; at that price, the company has a market value of about $278.4 million. Nashua announced the Reiss request after the market closed.    Mr. Junius said Nashua\'s "intention is to remain an independent public company." The company said it amended its shareholder rights plan by reducing to 10% from 20% the level of ownership by an outsider that would trigger the issuance to other holders of rights to buy additional shares of Nashua common at half price.    In addition, the company\'s board authorized the purchase of up to an additional one million shares. Under a program approved by the company in 1987 that did n\'t specify a share amount, Nashua had purchased 481,000 shares through Sept. 29.    Alex Henderson, an analyst at Prudential-Bache Securities, said that while Nashua\'s performance this year has been "atrocious," the company nonetheless is attractive as a "classic breakup candidate because there\'s no similarity between its {four} businesses." He estimated the breakup value at $55 a share. In addition to selling Japanese-made photocopiers and facsimile machines in Europe and copier supplies in the U.S., Nashua has three other major businesses: labels and tapes, data storage disks for computers and mail-order photofinishing. ', 'authorize', 'wsj_0520.tml']
['   Courtaulds PLC announced plans to spin off its textiles operations to existing shareholders in a restructuring to boost shareholder value.    The British chemical and textile company\'s plan, which requires shareholder approval, would create a new, listed U.K. stock with a probable market capitalization between #300 million ($473 million) and #400 million, analysts said. The establishment of the separate company, to be called Courtaulds Textiles, could be effective as early as next year\'s first quarter.    Investors welcomed the move. Courtaulds\' shares rose 15 pence to 362 pence, valuing the entire company at about #1.44 billion.    Courtaulds\' spinoff reflects pressure on British industry to boost share prices beyond the reach of corporate raiders. Courtaulds\' restructuring is among the largest thus far in Britain, though it is dwarfed by B.A.T Industries PLC\'s plans to spin roughly off #4 billion in assets to help fend off a takeover bid from Anglo-French financier Sir James Goldsmith. The divested Courtaulds textile operations had operating profit of #50 million on #980 million in revenue in the year ended March 31.    Some analysts have said Courtaulds\' moves could boost the company\'s value by 5% to 10%, because the two entities separately will carry a higher price earnings multiple than they did combined. In addition, Courtaulds said the moves are logical because they will allow both the chemicals and textile businesses to focus more closely on core activities.    Courtaulds has been under pressure to enhance shareholder value since takeover speculators -- including Australian financier Kerry Packer -- surfaced holding small stakes last year. Though Mr. Packer has since sold his stake, Courtaulds is moving to keep its institutional shareholders happy. Even without a specific takeover threat, Courtaulds is giving shareholders "choice and value," said Julia Blake, an analyst at London stockbrokers Barclays de Zoete Wedd.    In a statement, the company said: "Both parts can only realize their full potential and be appropriately valued by the market if they are separately quoted companies. The sharper definition and the autonomy which each will thereby gain will benefit shareholders, customers and employees."    Courtaulds Chairman and Chief Executive Sir Christopher Hogg will remain in both posts at the surviving chemical company after the spinoff. ', 'allow', 'wsj_0376.tml']
['   Crossland Savings Bank\'s stock plummeted after management recommended a suspension of dividend payments on both its common and preferred stock because Crossland may not meet the new government capital criteria effective Dec. 7.    In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday, Crossland closed at $5.25, down $1.875, a 26% decline.    A spokesman said the savings bank may not qualify for the capital requirements because, under the proposed guidelines, its $380 million of preferred stock does n\'t meet the "core capital" criteria outlined under the new Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989. He added that final guidelines to be published in early November will determine whether the bank is in compliance.    Crossland said it retained three investment bankers to assist it in developing and implementing a financial restructuring plan. It would n\'t identify the bankers.    Additionally, Crossland reported a third-quarter loss of $175.5 million, or $13.44 a share, compared with net income of $27.1 million, or $1.16 a share, a year ago. A major factor in the third-quarter loss was the write-down of $143.6 million of goodwill.    The spokesman said that the proposed guidelines caused Crossland to revise its business objectives and, consequently , to write down the asset value of some previous acquisitions. Crossland recorded an additional $20 million in loan loss reserves in the third quarter.    Net interest income for the third quarter declined to $35.6 million from $70.1 million a year ago. However, non-interest income rose to $23.5 million from $22 million. Third-quarter loan originations dropped sharply to $663 million from $1 billion a year ago.    Standard amp Poor\'s Corp. lowered the rating on Crossland\'s preferred stock to double-C from single-B-minus and placed it on CreditWatch for possible further downgrade. It also placed on CreditWatch for possible downgrade other securities, including the double-B-minus/B rating of Crossland\'s certificates of deposit and the single-B rating of its senior subordinated capital notes. About $518 million of debt is affected. ', 'qualify', 'wsj_0527.tml']
['   Rally\'s Inc. said it adopted a shareholders rights plan to protect shareholders from an inadequately priced takeover offer.    The plan provides for the distribution of one common stock-purchase right as a dividend for each share of common outstanding. Each right entitles shareholders to buy one-half share of common for $30.    Earlier this month, a group led by three of the company\'s directors, Burt Sugarman, James M. Trotter III and Willam E. Trotter II, indicated it had a 45.2% stake in the Louisville, Ky., fast-food company and that it planned to seek a majority of seats on Rally\'s nine-member board.    The company said it was " concerned about the announced intent to acquire control of the company" by a Sugarman-led group. ', 'entitle', 'wsj_0356.tml']
["   Heritage Media Corp., New York, said it offered  to buy the shares of POP Radio Corp. it  does n't  already own in a stock swap.    Heritage, which owns 51% of POP's 3.6 million shares outstanding, said it  will exchange one share of a new preferred stock for each POP common share it  does n't  already own. Depending upon how many warrants and options  are exercised prior to completion of the transaction, Heritage would issue between 1.8 million and 2.35 million preferred shares, a Heritage spokesman estimated. In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, POP plunged $4 to $14.75.    The preferred stock, which would have a dividend rate of $1.76 a year, would be convertible into Heritage common at a rate of four common shares for each preferred. New York-based POP Radio provides, through a national, in-store network, a customized music, information and advertising service which simulates live radio. Heritage owns and operates television and radio stations and in-store advertising and promotion programs. ", 'warrant', 'wsj_0165.tml']
["   DD Acquisition Corp., a partnership of Unicorp Canada Corp.'s Kingsbridge Capital Group and Cara Operations Ltd., extended to Nov. 20 its $45-a-share offer for all Dunkin' Donuts Inc. shares outstanding.    The offer, which was due to expire yesterday, is conditional on 50.1% of Dunkin' common shares, on a fully diluted basis, being tendered and on the withdrawal of the company's poison pill rights plan.    Acquisition has launched a suit in a Delaware court seeking the withdrawal of Dunkin's poison pill rights and employee stock ownership plans, which it claims were put in place to deter bidders. Acquisition said 2.2 million shares, or about 38.5% of the shares outstanding, have been tendered under its offer. The partners said they already hold 15% of all shares outstanding.    Dunkin' has set Nov. 10 as the deadline for the receipt of any competing bids. DD Acquisition said the extension is to allow this process to be completed. Dunkin' is based in Randolph, Mass. Cara, a food services chain operator and Unicorp, a holding company, are based in Toronto. ", 'allow', 'wsj_0159.tml']
['   Compaq Computer Corp. said that its net income rose 51% in the third quarter, bolstered by unusual gains from its investment in a disk-drive maker and reflecting continued growth in its European operations.    The computer maker said net jumped to $87 million, or $2.02 a share, from $58 million, or $1.40 a share, a year earlier. Sales increased 36% to $683 million from $502 million. The latest quarter\'s results, however , included a pretax gain of $13.7 million, or 20 cents a share, in the carrying value of the company\'s investment in Conner Peripherals Inc. and a $7.6 million gain, or 11 cents a share, from the sale of one million Conner shares.    Net for the nine months was $254 million, or $5.94 a share, up 56% from $163 million, or $4.06 a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 50% to $2.1 billion from $1.4 billion. Net for the year-earlier nine months also included a gain of $9.7 million, or 15 cents a share, in the carrying value of the Conner investment.    Michael Swavely, president of Compaq\'s North America division, attributed the company\'s third-quarter performance to continued increases in international sales, which accounted for 43% of the company\'s sales, a 74% increase from a year earlier.    "Over the next couple of years we would not be surprised to see Europe and international {sales} represent 50% of the company\'s revenues," he said.    During the third quarter, Compaq purchased a former Wang Laboratories manufacturing facility in Stirling, Scotland, which will be used for international service and repair operations. Mr. Swavely said the new space will allow Compaq to increase the manufacturing capacity of its plant in Erskine, Scotland.    In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, Compaq shares fell $1.625 to $108.625. ', 'allow', 'wsj_0904.tml']
["   Philip Morris Cos., New York, adopted a defense measure designed to make a hostile takeover prohibitively expensive.    The giant foods, tobacco and brewing company said it will issue common-share purchase rights to shareholders of record Nov. 8. Under certain circumstances, the rights would entitle Philip Morris holders to buy shares of either the company or its acquirer for half price.    The board is n't  aware of any attempts to take over Philip Morris, the company said. As of Sept. 30, Philip Morris had 926 million shares outstanding. In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Philip Morris shares closed yesterday at $43.50 each, down $1. ", 'entitle', 'wsj_1031.tml']
['   Cie. de Navigation Mixte Chairman Marc Fournier said his board unanimously rejected as too low the $1.77 billion bid by Cie. Financiere de Paribas to bring its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%.    At a news conference, Mr. Fournier accused Paribas of planning to pay for the takeover by selling parts of the company, whose interests include insurance, banking, tuna canning, sugar and orange juice.    The chairman said his board members, including representatives of West German insurance giant Allianz AG and French banks Credit Lyonnais and Societe Generale, hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital.    Mr. Fournier said that as Navigation Mixte chairman, he is prohibited by takeover regulations from organizing his own defense or doing anything besides managing current company business. But sources said he will be urging his allies to boost their stakes in Navigation Mixte, which is being traded in London and is to resume trading in Paris Tuesday. At the same time, he is expected to seek legal and regulatory means of blocking or delaying Paribas\'s bid. For the moment, the sources said, he has decided against seeking a white knight or organizing a counterbid for Paribas.    Mr. Fournier said Navigation Mixte\'s 1989 unconsolidated, or parent-company, profit is likely to be 4.7 billion francs ($754.4 million), up from 633.8 million francs last year. That is due mostly to payments from Allianz for most of the 50% stake it has agreed to acquire in Navigation Mixte\'s insurance business. Mr. Fournier said the exceptional gain would mean nearly twice as high a dividend this year as last. If holders avoid tendering to Paribas, he added, they can expect strong dividends again next year.    Analysts noted that over the past 20 years, Mr. Fournier has built his company through astute stock-market activity and has warded off at least three takeover attempts. This time, however, some analysts think he could face a real battle.    "Without some unexpected "coup de theatre", I do n\'t see what will block the Paribas bid," said Philippe de Cholet, analyst at the brokerage Cholet-Dupont amp Cie. Mr. de Cholet said Mr. Fournier\'s biggest hope was to somehow persuade regulatory authorities to block the bid. Paribas still needs the go-ahead from the Commission des Operations de Bourse, a government regulatory agency, but analysts said that is considered likely.    Mr. Fournier also noted that Navigation Mixte joined Paribas\'s core of shareholders when Paribas was denationalized in 1987, and said it now holds just under 5% of Paribas\'s shares. Once he realized that Paribas\'s intentions weren\'t friendly, he said, but before the bid was launched, he sought approval to boost his Paribas stake above 10%. The petition is still pending, but Mr. Fournier downplayed the likelihood of his organizing a takeover bid of his own for the much-larger Paribas.    One big question now is the likely role of Mr. Fournier\'s allies. Mr. Fournier said the large institutions that hold nearly 50% of Navigation Mixte\'s capital all strongly support him, but some analysts said they aren\'t so sure. Allianz, for example, has said in official comments so far that it will remain neutral. Paribas is Allianz\'s lead French bank.    Paribas said Monday that it intends to bid to boost its stake in Navigation Mixte to 66.7%, from the 18.7% it already owns. The purchase of the additional 48% stake is expected to cost more than 11 billion francs ($1.77 billion).    Paribas says it will offer 1,850 francs ($296.95) each for Navigation Mixte shares that enjoy full dividend rights, and 1,800 francs each for a block of shares issued July 1, which will receive only partial dividends this year. Alternatively, it is to offer three Paribas shares for one Navigation Mixte share. The Paribas offer values Navigation Mixte at about 23 billion francs, depending on how many of Navigation Mixte\'s warrants are converted into shares during the takeover battle. ', 'warrant', 'wsj_0810.tml']
["   Integra-A Hotel amp Restaurant Co. said its planned rights offering  to raise about $9 million  was declared effective and the company  will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week.    Under the offer, shareholders  will receive one right for each 105 common shares owned. Each right entitles the shareholder  to buy $100 face amount of 13.5% bonds due 1993 and warrants  to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share. The rights, which expire Nov. 21, can  be exercised for $100 each.    Integra, which owns and operates hotels, said that Hallwood Group Inc.  has agreed  to exercise any rights that are n't exercised by other shareholders. Hallwood, a Cleveland merchant bank, owns about 11% of Integra. ", 'entitle', 'wsj_0073.tml']
["   Integra-A Hotel amp Restaurant Co. said its planned rights offering  to raise about $9 million  was declared effective and the company  will begin mailing materials to shareholders at the end of this week.    Under the offer, shareholders  will receive one right for each 105 common shares owned. Each right entitles the shareholder  to buy $100 face amount of 13.5% bonds due 1993 and warrants  to buy 23.5 common shares at 30 cents a share. The rights, which expire Nov. 21, can  be exercised for $100 each.    Integra, which owns and operates hotels, said that Hallwood Group Inc.  has agreed  to exercise any rights that are n't exercised by other shareholders. Hallwood, a Cleveland merchant bank, owns about 11% of Integra. ", 'warrant', 'wsj_0073.tml']
["   Dominion Textile Inc. holders adopted a shareholder-rights plan at the annual meeting.    The so-called poison pill took effect Aug. 9 pending ratification by holders. Rights attached to the company's common shares were issued that are triggered if a hostile bidder acquires more than 20% of the shares outstanding. Once triggered, the rights allow holders to buy additional shares at 50% of the then current market price or, at the board's discretion, to receive securities or assets.    Separately, Dominion Textile posted net income of 4.7 million Canadian dollars ($4 million), or 12 Canadian cents a share, for the fiscal-first quarter ended Sept. 30. The company had a net loss of C$2.3 million, or 14 Canadian cents a share, a year ago. Sales were C$348.2 million compared with C$307.2 a year earlier. ", 'allow', 'wsj_0924.tml']
["   Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudiborder, today sought peace on another front by promising towithdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers capturedduring the Iran-Iraq war.   Also today, King Hussein of Jordan arrived in Washington seekingto mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. President Bush on Tuesday saidthe United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's RedSea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route.   In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it hadsent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to includeBaghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be allowed to leave Iraq.   President Bush today denounced Saddam's ``ruinous policies ofwar,'' and said the United States is ``striking a blow for theprinciple that might does not make right.''   In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, Bush seemed to suggestthat American forces could be in the gulf region for some time.``No one should doubt our staying power or determination,'' he said.   The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at feverpace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force campedout in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust byIraq.   In a letter to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, read by abroadcaster over Baghdad radio, Saddam said he will beginwithdrawing troops from Iranian territory on Friday and releaseIranian prisoners of war.   Iran said an Iraqi diplomatic delegation was en route to Tehranto deliver Saddam's message, which it said it would review ``withoptimism.''   Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he hadrejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of theeight-year war with Iran.   The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran,which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 but alsocriticized the multinational force dispatched to Saudi Arabia.   Saddam said he sought to ``turn the gulf into a lake of peacefree of foreign fleets and forces that harbor ill intentionsagainst us.''   In other developments:   _The Pentagon said that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney isconsidering urging Bush to order a national callup of armed forcesreserves for active duty because of the drain on units sendingsoldiers abroad. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to180 days without seeking congressional approval.   _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said specialambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with thegovernments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries.Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations,is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regularnews briefing today.   _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraqand Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-richsultanate.   The Iraqi ambassador to Greece said in Athens the Americans andother stranded foreigners could leave ``as soon as the threats fromthe United States and its allies are eliminated.'' ABC quoted anIraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans inIraq are ``restrictees'' who will stay there until the crisis ends.   _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Spokesman YuriGremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling inBaghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heatand lack of transportation.   Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands offoreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road routethrough Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border.   _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwaitappear to be deteriorating. There have been reports of wholesalelooting but food and gasoline were still available, said aspokesman, who by custom was not identified. Banks remained closed.   _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraqwould retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel membersif they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blockedsupplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now ``annexed,'' Iraqhas control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. A steep risein world oil prices followed the Kuwait invasion.   The U.N. Security Council on Aug. 6 ordered a global embargo ontrade with Iraq as punishment for seizing Kuwait. Bush then sentU.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massednearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves.   Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protectSaudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arrivingTuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudicapital.   Egyptian and Moroccan troops are already there.   The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today itstroops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. The size ofthe contingent was not disclosed.   Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oiloutlets through those countries, but according to Jordanianofficials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating.   Truckloads of goods rolled into Iraq from Jordan on Tuesday andIraqi-bound cargo was unloaded from ships at the Red Sea portofAqaba despite the U.N.-ordered sanctions.   King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush fromIraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The monarch will meetBush on Thursday in Kennebunkport, Maine.   Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and politicaladviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to becarrying. In an interview from Jordan on ABC, he declined todiscuss details, but said: ``I don't think that his majesty wouldbe traveling at this crucial moment if the Iraqi leadership did nothave a rational approach to the future.''   A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources saidthat Saddam's message called for an international conference to beconvened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. In exchange,the buildup of U.S. forces in the region would halt. Bush, however,says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to thegulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam towithdraw his army.   Bush held out the prospect of more aid to Jordan if itcooperates with the trade embargo.   On Tuesday, the United States and Soviet Union conferred inWashington on putting an anti-Iraq naval blockade under a UnitedNations umbrella.   The United States has provided most of the naval vessels so farto block Iraqi trade, with Britain, West Germany and Australiaamong the other nations lending support at sea.   The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exportsof oil and imports of food and military supplies. Iraq importsabout three-quarters of its foodstuffs.   U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that theSecurity Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorizesuch a naval operation.   Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricadenow in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba ``if it is a holethrough which commerce flows'' in and out of Iraq.   In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of ``Desert Shield,''the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqisoldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq boasts an army of 1 million members.At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to DesertShield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces,paratroopers and infantry.   Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil andmoney. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oilrevenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among othercharges.   Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million.", 'permit', 'AP900815-0044.tml']
["   Iraq's Saddam Hussein, facing U.S. and Arab troops at the Saudiborder, today sought peace on another front by promising towithdraw from Iranian territory and release soldiers capturedduring the Iran-Iraq war.   Also today, King Hussein of Jordan arrived in Washington seekingto mediate the Persian Gulf crisis. President Bush on Tuesday saidthe United States may extend its naval quarantine to Jordan's RedSea port of Aqaba to shut off Iraq's last unhindered trade route.   In another mediation effort, the Soviet Union said today it hadsent an envoy to the Middle East on a series of stops to includeBaghdad. Soviet officials also said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be allowed to leave Iraq.   President Bush today denounced Saddam's ``ruinous policies ofwar,'' and said the United States is ``striking a blow for theprinciple that might does not make right.''   In a speech delivered at the Pentagon, Bush seemed to suggestthat American forces could be in the gulf region for some time.``No one should doubt our staying power or determination,'' he said.   The U.S. military buildup in Saudi Arabia continued at feverpace, with Syrian troops now part of a multinational force campedout in the desert to guard the Saudi kingdom from any new thrust byIraq.   In a letter to President Hashemi Rafsanjani of Iran, read by abroadcaster over Baghdad radio, Saddam said he will beginwithdrawing troops from Iranian territory on Friday and releaseIranian prisoners of war.   Iran said an Iraqi diplomatic delegation was en route to Tehranto deliver Saddam's message, which it said it would review ``withoptimism.''   Saddam appeared to accept a border demarcation treaty he hadrejected in peace talks following the August 1988 cease-fire of theeight-year war with Iran.   The move seemed aimed at heading off more trouble with Iran,which had condemned Iraq's invasion of Kuwait on Aug. 2 but alsocriticized the multinational force dispatched to Saudi Arabia.   Saddam said he sought to ``turn the gulf into a lake of peacefree of foreign fleets and forces that harbor ill intentionsagainst us.''   In other developments:   _The Pentagon said that Defense Secretary Dick Cheney isconsidering urging Bush to order a national callup of armed forcesreserves for active duty because of the drain on units sendingsoldiers abroad. Bush can call up to 200,000 reservists for up to180 days without seeking congressional approval.   _Soviet Foreign Ministry spokesman Yuri Gremitskikh said specialambassador Mikhail Sytenko left Tuesday for consultations with thegovernments of Syria, Jordan, Egypt and other Arab countries.Sytenko, a former deputy secretary-general of the United Nations,is also expected to visit Baghdad, Gremitskikh said at a regularnews briefing today.   _The outlook darkened for about 3,000 Americans caught in Iraqand Kuwait when Saddam sent his forces into the small, oil-richsultanate.   The Iraqi ambassador to Greece said in Athens the Americans andother stranded foreigners could leave ``as soon as the threats fromthe United States and its allies are eliminated.'' ABC quoted anIraqi Foreign Ministry official in Baghdad as saying Americans inIraq are ``restrictees'' who will stay there until the crisis ends.   _The Soviet Foreign Ministry said Soviet women, children andinvalids would be permitted to leave Iraq. Spokesman YuriGremitskikh said the first group of 230 evacuees was assembling inBaghdad today, but evacuation plans were hampered by desert heatand lack of transportation.   Nearly 9,000 Soviets were among the hundreds of thousands offoreigners trapped in Iraq and Kuwait. Iraq has agreed to allow all880 Soviets in Kuwait to leave, but only by a 1,200-mile road routethrough Iraq and to the Iraq-Jordan border.   _The British Foreign Office said today conditions in Kuwaitappear to be deteriorating. There have been reports of wholesalelooting but food and gasoline were still available, said aspokesman, who by custom was not identified. Banks remained closed.   _The Iraqi ambassador to Venezuela said on Tuesday that Iraqwould retaliate against Venezuela and other OPEC oil cartel membersif they boost oil production to fill the gap created by blockedsupplies from Iraq and Kuwait. With Kuwait now ``annexed,'' Iraqhas control of 20 percent of the world's oil reserves. A steep risein world oil prices followed the Kuwait invasion.   The U.N. Security Council on Aug. 6 ordered a global embargo ontrade with Iraq as punishment for seizing Kuwait. Bush then sentU.S. troops and planes to Saudi Arabia, saying Iraqi troops massednearby in Kuwait threatened Saudi Arabia and its vast oil reserves.   Twelve Arab League nations voted for an Arab force to protectSaudi Arabia, with the vanguard of Syria's contingent arrivingTuesday, according to diplomatic sources in Riyadh, the Saudicapital.   Egyptian and Moroccan troops are already there.   The predominantly Moslem nation of Bangladesh said today itstroops would join multinational forces in Saudi Arabia. The size ofthe contingent was not disclosed.   Turkey and Saudi Arabia in effect shut down Iraq's major oiloutlets through those countries, but according to Jordanianofficials, a smaller line into Jordan remained operating.   Truckloads of goods rolled into Iraq from Jordan on Tuesday andIraqi-bound cargo was unloaded from ships at the Red Sea portofAqaba despite the U.N.-ordered sanctions.   King Hussein was reportedly carrying a message to Bush fromIraq's Saddam, with whom the king met Monday. The monarch will meetBush on Thursday in Kennebunkport, Maine.   Crown Prince Hassan, King Hussein's brother and politicaladviser, was asked today about the message the king was said to becarrying. In an interview from Jordan on ABC, he declined todiscuss details, but said: ``I don't think that his majesty wouldbe traveling at this crucial moment if the Iraqi leadership did nothave a rational approach to the future.''   A CBS News report citing unidentified Jordanian sources saidthat Saddam's message called for an international conference to beconvened to discuss an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait. In exchange,the buildup of U.S. forces in the region would halt. Bush, however,says he sees no short-term hope for a diplomatic solution to thegulf crisis _ at least until economic sanctions force Saddam towithdraw his army.   Bush held out the prospect of more aid to Jordan if itcooperates with the trade embargo.   On Tuesday, the United States and Soviet Union conferred inWashington on putting an anti-Iraq naval blockade under a UnitedNations umbrella.   The United States has provided most of the naval vessels so farto block Iraqi trade, with Britain, West Germany and Australiaamong the other nations lending support at sea.   The embargo is meant to cripple Iraq by cutting off its exportsof oil and imports of food and military supplies. Iraq importsabout three-quarters of its foodstuffs.   U.S. allies and other U.N. members have objected that theSecurity Council embargo resolution did not specifically authorizesuch a naval operation.   Bush told a news conference on Tuesday that the naval barricadenow in force might be extended to Jordan's Aqaba ``if it is a holethrough which commerce flows'' in and out of Iraq.   In Saudi Arabia, today is the eighth day of ``Desert Shield,''the operation designed to confront an estimated 200,000 Iraqisoldiers now in Kuwait. Iraq boasts an army of 1 million members.At least 50,000 U.S. troops are expected to be committed to DesertShield within weeks, including Marines, Army air assault forces,paratroopers and infantry.   Iraq said it invaded Kuwait because of disputes over oil andmoney. It accused Kuwait of deliberately slashing Iraqi oilrevenues by overproducing oil and driving down prices, among othercharges.   Iraq has 17 million residents, and Kuwait about 1.9 million.", 'allow', 'AP900815-0044.tml']
['   Dow Jones amp Co. extended its tender offer of $18 a share, or about $576 million, for the 33% of Telerate Inc. that it does n\'t already own until 5 p.m. EST, Nov. 6.    The offer, which Telerate\'s two independent directors have rejected as inadequate, previously had been scheduled to expire at midnight Friday. Dow Jones said it extended the offer to allow shareholders time to review a supplement to the Dow Jones tender offer circular that it mailed last Friday.    The supplement contains various information that has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission since Dow Jones launched the offer on Sept. 26, but it does n\'t change the terms and conditions of the offer except to extend its expiration date.    In Delaware Chancery Court litigation, Telerate has criticized Dow Jones for not disclosing that Telerate\'s management expects the company\'s revenue to increase by 20% annually, while Dow Jones based its projections of Telerate\'s performance on a 12% revenue growth forecast. In the tender offer supplement, Dow Jones discloses the different growth forecasts but says it views the 20% growth rate "as a hoped-for goal" of Telerate\'s management "and not as a realistic basis on which to project the company\'s likely future performance."    Telerate shares fell 50 cents on Friday to close at $20 each in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Dow Jones shares also fell 50 cents to close at $36.125 in Big Board composite trading.    Dow Jones has said it believes the $18-a-share price is fair to Telerate\'s minority shareholders. Late last week, representatives of Dow Jones and Telerate began negotiations about the terms of the offer, but those talks did n\'t result in any changes in the offer.    Telerate provides information about financial markets through an electronic network. Dow Jones, which owns 67% of Telerate, publishes The Wall Street Journal, Barron\'s magazine, community newspapers and operates financial news services and computer data bases. ', 'allow', 'wsj_0542.tml']
["   Hudson's Bay Co. announced terms of a previously proposed rights issue that is expected to raise about 396 million Canadian dollars (US$337 million) net of expenses.    Proceeds of the offering will be used to redeem C$264 million of preferred shares and to reduce short-term debt, the company said.    Canada's largest department store operator said the rights offering will entitle holders of its ordinary shares, except residents in the U.S. and Britain, to subscribe for two additional shares for every five shares held at a price of C$31.25 a share. The record date is Nov. 9.    The company has about 31 million ordinary shares outstanding. On the Toronto Stock Exchange, Hudson's Bay shares closed at C$35, up 12.5 cents.    Hudson's Bay said that Woodbridge Co., which currently holds about 77% of the ordinary shares, will subscribe for all the shares to which it is entitled and for any shares that are n't otherwise taken up. Woodbridge is a holding company owned by Toronto's Thomson family.    Hudson's Bay said it will redeem 9.5 million Series H preferred shares on Oct. 31 at a price of C$27.75 each. The move was approved at a special shareholders' meeting yesterday.    Gary Lukassen, chief financial officer, said redemption of the preferred shares, originally issued at C$25 each, will eliminate dividend payments of C$17.9 million annually. ", 'entitle', 'wsj_0798.tml']
["   West German and French authorities have cleared Dresdner Bank AG's takeover of a majority stake in Banque Internationale de Placement (BIP), Dresdner Bank said.    The approval, which had been expected, permits West Germany's second-largest bank to acquire shares of the French investment bank.    In a first step, Dresdner Bank will buy 32.99% of BIP for 1,015 French francs ($162) a share, or 528 million francs ($84.7 million). Dresdner Bank said it will also buy all shares tendered by shareholders on the Paris Stock Exchange at the same price from today through Nov. 17. In addition, the bank has an option to buy a 30.84% stake in BIP from Societe Generale after Jan. 1, 1990 at 1,015 francs a share. ", 'permit', 'wsj_0713.tml']
['   AVON RENT-A-CAR amp TRUCK Corp. said it declared a dividend of one warrant for each three shares of common stock. Currently, Avon, based in Santa Monica, Calif., has 3.3 million common shares outstanding. About 1.1 million Class C warrants were issued, the company said. Each of the Class C warrants will enable the holders to purchase one share of common stock at $5.50. The warrants may be exercised until 90 days after their issue date. Avon also said it will issue an additional 243,677 of the Class C warrants to holders of its Class A, Class B and unclassified warrants. Issuance of those warrants will be at the rate of one-third warrant for each warrant exercised. ', 'enable', 'wsj_1042.tml']
['   AVON RENT-A-CAR amp TRUCK Corp. said it declared a dividend of one warrant for each three shares of common stock. Currently, Avon, based in Santa Monica, Calif., has 3.3 million common shares outstanding. About 1.1 million Class C warrants were issued, the company said. Each of the Class C warrants will enable the holders to purchase one share of common stock at $5.50. The warrants may be exercised until 90 days after their issue date. Avon also said it will issue an additional 243,677 of the Class C warrants to holders of its Class A, Class B and unclassified warrants. Issuance of those warrants will be at the rate of one-third warrant for each warrant exercised. ', 'warrant', 'wsj_1042.tml']
["   AEP INDUSTRIES Inc. directors authorized a 3-for-2 split of the common, payable Dec. 7 to stock of record Nov. 22. The split was aimed at boosting the stock's liquidity, said Brendan Barba, chairman of the Moonachie, N.J., maker of plastic film products. After the split, the company will have more than 4.7 million shares outstanding. In national over-the-counter trading yesterday, AEP shares closed at $21.25, down 50 cents. ", 'authorize', 'wsj_0752.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'license', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'authorize', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
["   The Persian Gulf showdown between Iraq and the United Statestook a more personal turn Thursday when Iraq's Saddam Husseincalled President Bush a liar and said the outbreak of holy warcould bring thousands of Americans home in coffins.   Bush, commenting on the two-week-old gulf crisis from hisvacation home in Maine, said he saw little reason to be optimisticabout a settlement of the dispute, which stems from Iraq's invasionof oil-wealthy Kuwait and its subsequent military buildup on theborder of Saudi Arabia.   After a two-hour meeting at his Kennebunkport home with KingHussein of Jordan, Bush said, ``I did not come away with anyfeeling of hope'' that Iraq would withdraw its army from Kuwait.   Bush also said Thursday that King Hussein assured him Jordanwould close the last remaining free port to most Iraqi trade as theeconomic embargo on materials to Iraq continued unabated.Foodstuffs are among the goods  being blocked from entry; Iraqimports about three-quarters of its food.   Pentagon sources in Washington meanwhile said the Bushadministration plans  to deploy 45,000 Marines to the region to backup the thousands of Army, Navy and Air Force troops already inplace in the gulf and the Saudi desert.   At a news conference, Secretary of State James A. Baker III saidJordan `` is seeking some guidance'' about a provision in theU.N.-backed trade embargo that allows food for humanitarianpurposes.   Worries however grew about the safety of Americans and otherWesterners trapped in Kuwait. Iraqi military authorities orderedall Americans and Britons in Kuwait  to assemble at a hotel,officials said.   ``Very few'' of the 2,500 Americans in occupied Kuwait compliedwith the order, a senior U.S. official told The Associated Press.   Iraq said the roundup was  to protect them from unspecifiedthreats; British Foreign Office minister William Waldegrave calledthe order ``grave and sinister.''   ``What we fear is that they  will  be interned somewhere, mostlikely in Iraq,'' Waldegrave said.   A total of about 3,000 Americans, 3,000 Britons and more than450 Japanese are in Iraq and Kuwait. Overall, more than 2 millionforeigners are in both countries. Iraq  has called them``restrictees.''   In addition to the estimated 45,000 Marines to ultimately bepart of Operation Desert Shield, Stealth fighter planes and theaircraft carrier John F. Kennedy  are  also headed to Saudi Arabia  to protect it from Iraqi expansionism.   In Washington, Pentagon spokesman Pete Williams said Iraq  has continued  to increase its armed forces in Kuwait and they nownumber about 160,000.   Saddam has been under international quarantine since his Aug. 2power-grab, or what he calls an ``eternal merger'' with Kuwait.   In a long verbal attack read on Iraqi television Thursday,Saddam repeatedly called Bush ``a liar'' and said a shooting warcould produce body bags courtesy of Baghdad.   ``We continue  to pray and pray hard to God so that there will beno confrontation whereby you  will receive thousands of Americanswrapped in sad coffins after you  had pushed them into a darktunnel,'' Saddam said.   He called U.S. soldiers massing in Saudi Arabia the realoccupiers in the Persian Gulf.   Replied State Department deputy spokesman Richard Boucher, ``Wehave n't  really analyzed the statement in detail but it appears tobe just another example of his outlandish rhetoric and his attempts to distort the truth.   ``We believe that his words cannot distract the world from thefacts of Iraqi aggression.''   An international land, sea and air force  has mobilized sinceIraq's invasion, which  was sparked by disputes over oil, land andrepayment of war loans.   In the largest U.S. military operation since Vietnam, anestimated 20,000 American GIs  have  already massed  to defend SaudiArabia.   ``We  do n't  just arrive,'' said four-star Gen. John Dailey,assistant commandant of the U.S. Marine Corps. ``We're there to stay for a fairly lengthy period.''   Egypt, Syria, Morocco and Bangladesh also committed groundtroops, to a much lesser degree.   The U.S. Navy has 27 ships in the maritime barricade of Iraq.They  are aided by Britain, West Germany, Australia, Canada, theNetherlands and Belgium. Bush  was expected  to authorize navalcommanders  to use ``the minimum force necessary''  to interdictshipments to and from Iraq, a U.S. official said. That could    include firing across the bow to halt a ship.   In the air, U.S. Air Force fliers say they  have engaged in ``alittle cat and mouse'' with Iraqi warplanes, which  have retreatedwhen weapons radar locks onto them. ``They  do n't want  to play withus,'' one U.S. crew chief said.   In Kuwait, the Iraqis  have rimmed the capital city with anair-defense system, according to a U.S. official who spoke on thecondition of anonymity. He declined to say if the weapons includedmissiles, but the Iraqis have them in their arsenal. The Iraqisalso possess chemical weapons.   The combined operations  are designed  to isolate and strangleIraq until it retreats from Kuwait. The quarantine hopes  to staunchthe flow of Iraqi oil, which is Iraq's economic lifeblood, andclamp down on food and supplies going in.   Iraq now controls 20 percent of the world's oil reserves withits conquest of Kuwait. Only Saudi Arabia has more oil reserves.   The economic chokehold appears  to  be working.   The Lloyd's List International newspaper, which monitorsworldwide shipping, said Iraq's fleet of 80 tankers and cargo ships has stopped regular trading.   John Prescott, a shipping correspondent, said there was noshipping in Kuwaiti or Iraqi ports and that activity  was trailing off in the Jordanian port of Aqaba.   Bush's chief objective in his meeting with Hussein was to pressthe king  to shut down Iraq's food and oil supply route from Aqabaon the Red Sea.   Aqaba is Iraq's only outlet now that an international noose  has tightened. Bush  has indicated the U.S. Navy  will barricade the portfrom Iraqi ships. The president also has offered  to help offsetJordan's costs because 40 percent of its exports go to Iraq and 90percent of its oil comes from there.   ``It's our only outlet to the sea and the rest of the world,''Hussein said. He also said of trade with Iraq: ``There are noshipments at the moment.''   A day earlier, scores of trucks, many with Iraqi license plates,streamed north out of Aqaba to Amman and onto the desert highwaybound for Iraq.   The Jordanian monarch met this week with Saddam, but he toldreporters he had no message from Baghdad. ``I am not talking onbehalf of anyone in the area ... but myself,'' Hussein said.   In the United Nations, Libya called for the replacement of U.S.forces in the Persian Gulf with Arab League forces and U.N.soldiers.   Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi, in a letter to the U.N.Secretary-General, also called for an emergency Security Councilmeeting in Geneva  to remove U.S. forces. There was no decision on ameeting.   Thirty-two of the 159 U.N. members  had filed compliance reportsby Wednesday, and all  were honoring the sanctions Iraq.   Also Thursday, Saudi Arabia called for an emergency conferenceof the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries  to discuss howmuch oil  to pump.   The minister denied the kingdom had notified notified any of itscustomers of any cutbacks in oil supply. Reports attributed to theJapanese foreign ministry said Saudi Arabia told U.S., European andJapanese oil companies of a 15-20 percent cutback in its oil supplyin September.   Meanwhile, Egypt's official Middle East News Agency saidThursday that Saddam was the target of an assassination attempt,which led to ``large-scale'' arrests, including some closeassociates of the Iraqi strongman.   The agency quoted witnesses as saying tanks and armored cars arepatrolling the streets of Baghdad. There was no independentconfirmation of the report by the government-run news agency, whichdid not say when the reported attempt occurred.", 'allow', 'AP900816-0139.tml']
['   Columbia Savings amp Loan Association, reeling from thrift-accounting changes mandated by Congress and the recent collapse of the junk-bond market, announced a loss for the third quarter of $226.3 million, or $11.57 a share.    For the quarter a year ago, Columbia reported earnings of $16.3 million, or 37 cents a share. Total assets increased to $12.7 billion in the latest quarter from $12.4 billion a year earlier.    The loss stems from $357.5 million of write-downs on Columbia\'s $4.4 billion high-yield investment securities portfolio, which includes about $3.7 billion of junk bonds, $400 million of preferred stock, and Treasury securities.    Columbia owes its spectacular growth in recent years to its junk-bond portfolio, the largest of any U.S. thrift. Much of Columbia\'s junk-bond trading has been done through the high-yield department of its Beverly Hills neighbor, Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.    For the nine months, losses totaled $212 million, or $10.83 a share, compared with net income of $48.7 million, or $1.11 a share, a year earlier.    The results include a $130.2 million write-down of the securities in the high-yield portfolio to the lower of their cost or market value.    Columbia also added $227.3 million to reserves for losses on the portfolio, increasing general reserves to $300 million, or about 6.7% of the total portfolio, as of Sept. 30. On June 30, loss reserves stood at $108.3 million. Thrift officials said the $300 million reserve will be adjusted quarterly and will reflect the rate of dispositions and market conditions.    The adjustments result from the recently passed thrift-industry bailout legislation, which requires thrifts to divest all high-yield bond investments by 1994. Previously, Columbia did n\'t have to adjust the book value of its junk-bond holdings to reflect declines in market prices, because it held the bonds as long-term investments. Because Columbia now must sell the bonds within five years, accounting rules require the thrift to value the bonds at the lower of cost or market prices.    For its future strategy, Columbia officials said the thrift may branch out into commercial lending or managing outside investments, as well as beefing up more traditional thrift activities.    The quarterly results also reflected $21.4 million in non-recurring losses from commercial real-estate activities in California.    Thomas Spiegel, Columbia\'s chairman, said in a statement that the thrift was " disappointed" by the effects of the accounting changes. But he said Columbia remains "one of the most strongly capitalized thrifts in the industry," based on the economic value of its assets and tangible capital.    Columbia announced the results after the close of the stock market. Its shares closed at $5.125 each in composite New York Stock Exchange trading, down 37.5 cents. The price of Columbia shares has been cut nearly in half since August, when they traded at about $10, as investors apparently realized that the thrift would be forced to take a big write-down. The stock\'s decline accelerated in the past two weeks, from a price of $8 a share on Oct. 9.    Columbia officials said they do n\'t know how quickly they will dispose of the thrift\'s junk bonds, because federal regulations, such as those that would allow thrifts to continue holding the bonds in separately capitalized subsidiaries, have n\'t yet been completed.    Columbia officials also said the thrift should n\'t face problems meeting regulatory capital requirements, despite the large reserves and write-downs and stiffer regulatory requirements that should be in place by year\'s end. Its ratio of tangible equity to total assets as of Sept. 30 was 3.6%, and total equity was $457.9 million.    The thrift emphasized that it has a large portfolio of equity securities issued in connection with corporate restructurings and leveraged buy-outs, which has a book value of $90 million.    Although many of the transactions related to those securities have n\'t been completed, Columbia said the ultimate gain on the sale of those assets will range from $200 million to $300 million. Columbia also has unrealized gains in its public equity securities portfolio of more than $70 million.    ---   David B. Hilder in New York contributed to this article. ', 'allow', 'wsj_1013.tml']
['   H. Marshall Schwarz was named chairman and chief executive officer of U.S. Trust Corp., a private-banking firm with assets under management of about $17 billion.    Mr. Schwarz, 52 years old, will succeed Daniel P. Davison Feb. 1, soon after Mr. Davison reaches the company\'s mandatory retirement age of 65. Mr. Schwarz, who is president of U.S. Trust, will be succeeded in that post by Jeffrey S. Maurer, 42, who is executive vice president in charge of the company\'s asset-management group.    U.S. Trust, a 136-year-old institution that is one of the earliest high-net worth banks in the U.S., has faced intensifying competition from other firms that have established, and heavily promoted, private-banking businesses of their own. As a result, U.S. Trust\'s earnings have been hurt.    But Mr. Schwarz welcomes the competition in U.S. Trust\'s flagship businesses, calling it "flattery." Mr. Schwarz says the competition "broadens the base of opportunity for us." Other firms "are dealing with the masses. I do n\'t believe they have the culture" to adequately service high-net-worth individuals, he adds. U.S. Trust recently introduced certain mutual-fund products, which allow it to serve customers with minimum deposits of $250,000. Previously, the company advertised at the $2 million level.    "We have always taken smaller accounts, but now we are looking for smaller accounts that will grow," Mr. Schwarz says. "Our bread and butter is still the $2 million to $20 million account," he says. The new services allow U.S. Trust to cater to the "new wealth," Mr. Schwarz says.    Quarterly net income this year has risen just over comparable periods in 1988, when year-end net was below the 1987 level. In this year\'s third quarter, for example, net was $10.5 million, or $1.05 a share, compared with $10.3 million, or $1.02 a share, a year earlier. Assets as of Sept. 30 fell to $2.46 billion from about $2.77 billion. "We  will have a reasonably flat year this year," Mr. Schwarz says. Mr. Schwarz also said costs associated with U.S. Trust\'s planned move to midtown Manhattan from Wall Street will continue to be a drag on earnings through 1990.    Mr. Schwarz\'s great-grandfather founded the New York toy store F.A.O. Schwarz, but his family no longer has ties to the company. Mr. Schwarz\'s father was a U.S. Trust trustee until 1974.    U.S. Trust also created a four-member office of the chairman, effective Feb. 1. It  will include Messrs. Schwarz and Maurer. Donald M. Roberts, 54, treasurer, and Frederick S. Wonham, 58, who takes responsibility for the funds-service group, were named vice chairmen and will serve in the office of the chairman. Mr. Roberts continues as treasurer, and Mr. Wonham remains responsible for the offices of comptroller, planning, marketing and general services.    Frederick B. Taylor, 48, also was named a vice chairman and chief investment officer, a new post. He previously held similar responsibilities. Mr. Taylor also was named a director, increasing the board to 22, but is not  part of the new office of the chairman.    James E. Bacon, 58, executive vice president, who has directed the funds-service group, will retire. ', 'allow', 'wsj_0927.tml']
['   General Motors Corp. wants to buy as much as 15% of Jaguar PLC, marking its first salvo in a possible full-scale battle against Ford Motor Co. for control of the British car maker.    GM sought U.S. antitrust clearance last week to purchase more than $15 million worth of Jaguar shares but does n\'t own any yet, according to GM officials here and at the company\'s Detroit headquarters. The No. 1 U.S. auto maker then wrote Jaguar that it intends "to go to that 15%" level once it wins the U.S. clearance to go beyond $15 million, a Jaguar spokesman said yesterday.    The GM move follows Tuesday\'s declaration by Ford, which holds an unwelcome 12.45% stake in Jaguar, that it is prepared to bid for the entire company. GM is close to completing a friendly deal with Jaguar that is likely to involve an eventual 30% stake and joint manufacturing ventures. Speculative investors, betting on an imminent clash between Ford and GM, pushed up Jaguar\'s share price five pence (eight U.S. cents) to a near-record 720 pence ($11.60) in late trading on London\'s stock exchange yesterday. Since Tuesday, the shares have gained nearly 4%.    But an all-out bidding war between the world\'s top auto giants for Britain\'s leading luxury-car maker seems unlikely. "We will not go over a certain level," said David N. McCammon, Ford\'s vice president for finance, at a news conference yesterday in Dearborn, Mich."There\'s some price at which we\'d stop bidding." He would n\'t specify what it was.    And powerful political pressures may convince the Conservative government to keep its so-called golden share, which limits any individual holding to 15%, until the restriction expires on Dec. 31, 1990.    "I really do n\'t see the government doing something that Jaguar does n\'t want over the next 14 months," said Kenneth Warren, a Conservative member of Parliament and chairman of the Select Committee on Trade and Industry in Britain\'s House of Commons. "The golden share is a single share, but it is the magic share."    The government retained the single share after selling its stake in Jaguar in 1984 -- part of a nationalistic practice of protecting former government-owned enterprises to deflect criticism of privatization. The 15% restriction covers any would-be suitor, British or foreign.    Ford is willing to bid for 100% of Jaguar\'s shares if both the government and Jaguar shareholders agree to relax the anti-takeover barrier prematurely. As Jaguar\'s biggest holder and Britain\'s biggest car maker, Ford could turn up the heat by convening a special shareholders\' meeting and urging holders to drop the limits early. Ford might succeed because many shareholders are speculators keen for a full bid or institutional investors unhappy over Jaguar management\'s handling of its current financial difficulties.    The government probably would n\'t give in readily to a hostile foray by Ford, however. It has relinquished a golden share only once before -- during British Petroleum Co.\'s #2.5 billion ($4 billion) takeover of Britoil PLC in 1988.    In wooing British lawmakers, GM has pointed out that its willingness to settle for a minority stake would keep Jaguar British-owned and independent. This week, the U.S. auto giant paid for 10 House of Commons members and two House of Lords members to fly to Detroit and tour its operations there. While the visit was unrelated to Jaguar, GM Chairman Roger Smith answered the legislators\' questions about it over lunch Tuesday. He said Jaguar "should n\'t be smothered by anyone else , " recalled one participant.    Politics also influences the government\'s thinking on the anti-takeover restriction. The Conservatives do n\'t dare jeopardize marginal Tory seats in Coventry, where Jaguar has headquarters, nor can the government easily back down on promised protection for a privatized company while it proceeds with controversial plans to privatize most of Britain\'s water and electricity industries.    Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher might , however , be receptive to any request by Jaguar Chairman Sir John Egan for the restriction\'s early removal to let GM amass more than 15% or mount a friendly suitor bid against Ford. In the end, Sir John -- rather than the government or Jaguar shareholders -- may hold the key that unlocks the golden share. ', 'let', 'wsj_0745.tml']
['   "So far, the offensive is progressing with dramaticsuccess," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commanderof U.S. forces. Similarly, while cautioning about theuncertainty of early battle reports, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that "the operation has been very successful." Amid reports that thousands of Iraqisoldiers had surrendered, administration aides were alsoupbeat in private, with one even talking of victory within aweek.   But even continued military success carries political anddiplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. The alliedrejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiativefrom an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms. But ithas offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush\'s real objectives are the demise ofSaddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, notjust the liberation of Kuwait.   "Why have a war?" asked Abdul Latif Shekar, a customsofficer in Egypt, a country participating in the attack onIraqi troops. "I think the Gorbachev plan was a good one.Iraq was ready to withdraw." Now, he says, "it looks like theWest just wants to destroy Iraq."   Despite the early indications of success, the alliedforces could still suffer greater casualties and becomebogged down militarily  , especially when they encounter thetough Republican Guard, which is entrenched along theIraq-Kuwait border. If so, and if it appears that theAmerican goal actually is to destroy the Iraqi regime even atthe cost of badly hurting Iraqi society, "the lingering costof that could be high," worries former national securityadviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. But, he notes, "If everythingcrumbles totally, that won\'t be such a problem."   American officials staunchly disavow any interest indriving through Iraq toward Baghdad, either in pursuit ofSaddam Hussein himself or to set up some American-controlledgovernment inside Iraq. The Americans say their battle planscall for operating against forces inside Iraq as far north asthe city of Basra, about 30 miles north of Kuwait, but saythere is n\'t  any plan to drive beyond that.   Indeed, French President Francois Mitterrand saidyesterday that some allied forces are crossing Iraqiterritory as part of a "pincer" movement to trap the soldiersoccupying Kuwait, but insisted, "The purpose isn\'t to invadeIraqi territory, that\'s not the aim, that isn\'t the mandate."   Nevertheless, American officials over the weekend becamemore open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein\'smilitary machine they hope to destroy his regime -- a goallikely to be supported by most Americans.   In a pre-attack message, Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, the topMarine in the Persian Gulf, told U.S. Marines that their goalis to " restore {Kuwait} to its citizens." He went on to addthat "in so doing you not only return a nation to its people,but you will destroy the war machine of a ruthless dictator."   Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV\'s "This WeekWith David Brinkley" that the series of United Nationsresolutions condemning Iraq\'s invasion of Kuwait "imply thatthe restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be aheck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not  inpower in Iraq."   Of course, it is still far too early to assume that themilitary situation on the ground will stay as smooth forallied forces as it appears to have been so far. Iraq stillhas the potential to cause significant problems by usingforces and weapons that don\'t yet seem fully engaged.   For one thing, Iraq still apparently has n\'t unleashed itsstockpile of chemical weapons. Gen. Schwarzkopf said thatsome early reports that chemical weapons were used againstallied troops turned out to be "bogus." Iraq is believed to have the ability to deliver chemical weapons in artilleryshells or, perhaps, atop Soviet-made Frog7 missiles.   Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troopshave n\'t yet fully engaged Iraq\'s vaunted Republican Guard,which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait borderand is considered the most potent element in the Iraqidefense. It remains to be seen how much damage the allied aircampaign was able to inflict on the Guard, and whetherPresident Hussein will commit his most valued troops to afight-to-the-death finish.   Certainly Saddam Hussein continues to implore his countryto fight on. "Fight them," he urged Iraqis in a radioaddress. "All Iraqis, fight them with all the power you have,and all struggle for everything."   American war planners have long assumed that the earlystage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and theirstrength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi frontline, would be the easiest part.   Despite these early successes, the mere fact that a groundcampaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bushadministration will face fresh problems growing out of themilitary situation. There are likely to be additionalAmerican prisoners of war taken, and there are signs thatPresident Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. U.S. andKuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers ofcivilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held byIraqi troops, apparently either for use as human shields orfor use later in bargaining once the war is over.   President Bush\'s political argument for going to a groundwar has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports ofwanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. U.S. officials saythat hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells now may have been set afire. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush\'s deputy national securityadviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Networkthat Iraqi troops have set fire to "large sections" of KuwaitCity.   Mr. Bush and his aides were leaning toward a militaryconclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports ofIraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light. The president andhis top aides tentatively decided on Feb. 11 that a groundwar would be necessary. The decision was made after DefenseSecretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of theJoint Chiefs of Staff, returned from a visit with militarycommanders in Saudi Arabia, administration officials say.Then, a week or so ago, Gen. Schwarzkopf secretly pickedSaturday night as the optimal time to start the offensive.   The date was unaffected by the last-ditch Soviet peaceinitiative. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S.officials now say, was that they all would have requiredlifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The Bushadministration considers the sanctions essential to keepingSaddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.   Mr. Bush forestalled further diplomatic maneuvering byissuing an ultimatum on behalf of the allies demanding thatIraq withdraw within a week, starting at noon Saturday.Administration aides said that the idea of the ultimatum wasGen. Powell\'s. He argued setting an explicit deadline forSaddam Hussein to break would, when it was broken, give theU.S. military a clear green light to proceed.   In setting out his final challenge to Saddam Hussein, Mr.Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy he beganafter the invasion llast August. After cabling world leadersabout his intention to give Saddam Hussein a final deadlineto exit Kuwait, he offered him a week to withdraw fully  , instead of the four days he originally considered, because ofobjections from some European partners that four days seemedpunitive and unrealistic.   And when he and President Gorbachev spoke about thedecision in a talk lasting nearly an hour, the President tookpains to listen to what his counterpart had to say, althoughhe already had decided that the Soviet alternative to theallied deadline was unacceptable.   Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S.ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin aspreviously planned Saturday night.   The attack was lightning quick, as allied forces punchedthrough tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward intoIraq and Kuwait. U.S. Marines were said to have breachedtroublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagonofficials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait\'s beaches had begun. Long columns of Iraqi prisoners of war could be seentrudging through the desert toward the allied rear. U.S.commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the firsthours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.   The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out ofKuwait quickly , leaving much of Iraq\'s offensive militaryequipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. It expects thattens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to theU.S. and its allies over the the next few days.   If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plungedhis country first into a fruitless eight-year-long waragainst Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S.and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving muchof his country\'s military establishment and moderninfrastructure in ruins.   Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and aninternational arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraqpays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. Thatwould undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or itsarmed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remainsin power. The American hope is that someone from within Iraq,perhaps from the army\'s professional ranks, will step forwardand push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can beginrecovering from the disaster.   Outside analysts think Saddam Hussein\'s position is indeedprecarious. "I think frankly Saddam is finished, no matterwhat happens," says Christine Helms, a Middle East scholarwho has written extensively about Iraq. "These guys simply do n\'t retire to condos over the Euphrates."   Despite the lack of any obvious successors, the Iraqileader\'s internal power base appeared to be narrowing evenbefore the war began. Some analysts say he appeared to be relying on a smaller and smaller circle of close advisers andrelatives. If that\'s true, the narrowing of his support would make it easier for someone to push him aside from within.   Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein\'s support within theIraqi military. And the U.S. now will face sharper questionsin the Arab world since it did n\'t  back  the peace proposalsworked out in Moscow. "We looked to the United States, weexpected you to have the moral edge," says Nasser Tahboub, aJerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and adoctorate in political science from Duke University. "Now wesee that edge eroded. For me, it is a great tragedy. For thefirst time in history, the U.S. has gone to war with an Araband Muslim nation, and we know a peaceful solution was inreach."   ---   Geraldine Brooks in Amman, Jordan, and Craig Forman inCairo, Egypt, contributed to this article.', 'enable', 'WSJ910225-0066.tml']
['   "So far, the offensive is progressing with dramaticsuccess," said a buoyant Gen. Norman Schwarzkopf, commanderof U.S. forces. Similarly, while cautioning about theuncertainty of early battle reports, White House spokesmanMarlin Fitzwater said late yesterday that "the operation has been very successful." Amid reports that thousands of Iraqisoldiers had surrendered, administration aides were alsoupbeat in private, with one even talking of victory within aweek.   But even continued military success carries political anddiplomatic risks for President Bush and the U.S. The alliedrejection of the last-minute Soviet-led diplomatic effort to avoid the ground war enabled Mr. Bush to seize the initiativefrom an Iraq seemingly bent on dictating peace terms. But ithas offended some, especially in Arab countries, who now believe that Mr. Bush\'s real objectives are the demise ofSaddam Hussein and the destruction of the Iraqi military, notjust the liberation of Kuwait.   "Why have a war?" asked Abdul Latif Shekar, a customsofficer in Egypt, a country participating in the attack onIraqi troops. "I think the Gorbachev plan was a good one.Iraq was ready to withdraw." Now, he says, "it looks like theWest just wants to destroy Iraq."   Despite the early indications of success, the alliedforces could still suffer greater casualties and becomebogged down militarily  , especially when they encounter thetough Republican Guard, which is entrenched along theIraq-Kuwait border. If so, and if it appears that theAmerican goal actually is to destroy the Iraqi regime even atthe cost of badly hurting Iraqi society, "the lingering costof that could be high," worries former national securityadviser Zbigniew Brzezinski. But, he notes, "If everythingcrumbles totally, that won\'t be such a problem."   American officials staunchly disavow any interest indriving through Iraq toward Baghdad, either in pursuit ofSaddam Hussein himself or to set up some American-controlledgovernment inside Iraq. The Americans say their battle planscall for operating against forces inside Iraq as far north asthe city of Basra, about 30 miles north of Kuwait, but saythere is n\'t  any plan to drive beyond that.   Indeed, French President Francois Mitterrand saidyesterday that some allied forces are crossing Iraqiterritory as part of a "pincer" movement to trap the soldiersoccupying Kuwait, but insisted, "The purpose isn\'t to invadeIraqi territory, that\'s not the aim, that isn\'t the mandate."   Nevertheless, American officials over the weekend becamemore open in declaring that by destroying Saddam Hussein\'smilitary machine they hope to destroy his regime -- a goallikely to be supported by most Americans.   In a pre-attack message, Lt. Gen. Walter Boomer, the topMarine in the Persian Gulf, told U.S. Marines that their goalis to " restore {Kuwait} to its citizens." He went on to addthat "in so doing you not only return a nation to its people,but you will destroy the war machine of a ruthless dictator."   Secretary of State James Baker said on ABC-TV\'s "This WeekWith David Brinkley" that the series of United Nationsresolutions condemning Iraq\'s invasion of Kuwait "imply thatthe restoration of peace and stability in the Gulf would be aheck of a lot easier if he and that leadership were not  inpower in Iraq."   Of course, it is still far too early to assume that themilitary situation on the ground will stay as smooth forallied forces as it appears to have been so far. Iraq stillhas the potential to cause significant problems by usingforces and weapons that don\'t yet seem fully engaged.   For one thing, Iraq still apparently has n\'t unleashed itsstockpile of chemical weapons. Gen. Schwarzkopf said thatsome early reports that chemical weapons were used againstallied troops turned out to be "bogus." Iraq is believed to have the ability to deliver chemical weapons in artilleryshells or, perhaps, atop Soviet-made Frog7 missiles.   Perhaps more important, it appears that allied troopshave n\'t yet fully engaged Iraq\'s vaunted Republican Guard,which has been sitting just north of the Iraq-Kuwait borderand is considered the most potent element in the Iraqidefense. It remains to be seen how much damage the allied aircampaign was able to inflict on the Guard, and whetherPresident Hussein will commit his most valued troops to afight-to-the-death finish.   Certainly Saddam Hussein continues to implore his countryto fight on. "Fight them," he urged Iraqis in a radioaddress. "All Iraqis, fight them with all the power you have,and all struggle for everything."   American war planners have long assumed that the earlystage of the ground attack, in which American forces would use their speed to sweep around Iraqi defenses and theirstrength to punch through the relatively weak Iraqi frontline, would be the easiest part.   Despite these early successes, the mere fact that a groundcampaign has begun almost guarantees that the Bushadministration will face fresh problems growing out of themilitary situation. There are likely to be additionalAmerican prisoners of war taken, and there are signs thatPresident Hussein is taking Kuwaiti hostages. U.S. andKuwaiti officials say there are reports that large numbers ofcivilians from Kuwait City are being rounded up and held byIraqi troops, apparently either for use as human shields orfor use later in bargaining once the war is over.   President Bush\'s political argument for going to a groundwar has been strengthened by the growing stream of reports ofwanton Iraqi destruction inside Kuwait. U.S. officials saythat hundreds of Kuwaiti oil wells now may have been set afire. And Robert Gates, Mr. Bush\'s deputy national securityadviser, asserted in an interview on the Cable News Networkthat Iraqi troops have set fire to "large sections" of KuwaitCity.   Mr. Bush and his aides were leaning toward a militaryconclusion of the crisis even before the latest reports ofIraqi atrocities in Kuwait came to light. The president andhis top aides tentatively decided on Feb. 11 that a groundwar would be necessary. The decision was made after DefenseSecretary Dick Cheney and Gen. Colin Powell, chairman of theJoint Chiefs of Staff, returned from a visit with militarycommanders in Saudi Arabia, administration officials say.Then, a week or so ago, Gen. Schwarzkopf secretly pickedSaturday night as the optimal time to start the offensive.   The date was unaffected by the last-ditch Soviet peaceinitiative. The real problem with the Soviet proposals, U.S.officials now say, was that they all would have requiredlifting economic sanctions against Iraq. The Bushadministration considers the sanctions essential to keepingSaddam Hussein under control should he survive the war.   Mr. Bush forestalled further diplomatic maneuvering byissuing an ultimatum on behalf of the allies demanding thatIraq withdraw within a week, starting at noon Saturday.Administration aides said that the idea of the ultimatum wasGen. Powell\'s. He argued setting an explicit deadline forSaddam Hussein to break would, when it was broken, give theU.S. military a clear green light to proceed.   In setting out his final challenge to Saddam Hussein, Mr.Bush continued the intensive personal diplomacy he beganafter the invasion llast August. After cabling world leadersabout his intention to give Saddam Hussein a final deadlineto exit Kuwait, he offered him a week to withdraw fully  , instead of the four days he originally considered, because ofobjections from some European partners that four days seemedpunitive and unrealistic.   And when he and President Gorbachev spoke about thedecision in a talk lasting nearly an hour, the President tookpains to listen to what his counterpart had to say, althoughhe already had decided that the Soviet alternative to theallied deadline was unacceptable.   Finally, when Iraq failed to respond to the U.S.ultimatum, Mr. Bush let the ground offensive begin aspreviously planned Saturday night.   The attack was lightning quick, as allied forces punchedthrough tall sand berms on the border and pushed forward intoIraq and Kuwait. U.S. Marines were said to have breachedtroublesome mine fields along the Iraqi lines but Pentagonofficials said no amphibious assault on Kuwait\'s beaches had begun. Long columns of Iraqi prisoners of war could be seentrudging through the desert toward the allied rear. U.S.commanders said 5,500 Iraqi prisoners were taken in the firsthours of the ground war, though some military officials later said the total may have climbed above 8,000.   The U.S. hopes its troops will drive Iraqi forces out ofKuwait quickly , leaving much of Iraq\'s offensive militaryequipment destroyed or abandoned in Kuwait. It expects thattens of thousands of Iraqi soldiers will surrender to theU.S. and its allies over the the next few days.   If the allies succeed, Saddam Hussein will have plungedhis country first into a fruitless eight-year-long waragainst Iran and then into a humiliating war against the U.S.and the allies to defend his conquest of Kuwait, leaving muchof his country\'s military establishment and moderninfrastructure in ruins.   Meanwhile, the U.S. hopes, economic sanctions and aninternational arms embargo will remain in effect until Iraqpays war reparations to Kuwait to cover war damages. Thatwould undermine any chances of rebuilding either Iraq or itsarmed forces in short order as long as Saddam Hussein remainsin power. The American hope is that someone from within Iraq,perhaps from the army\'s professional ranks, will step forwardand push Saddam Hussein aside so that the country can beginrecovering from the disaster.   Outside analysts think Saddam Hussein\'s position is indeedprecarious. "I think frankly Saddam is finished, no matterwhat happens," says Christine Helms, a Middle East scholarwho has written extensively about Iraq. "These guys simply do n\'t retire to condos over the Euphrates."   Despite the lack of any obvious successors, the Iraqileader\'s internal power base appeared to be narrowing evenbefore the war began. Some analysts say he appeared to be relying on a smaller and smaller circle of close advisers andrelatives. If that\'s true, the narrowing of his support would make it easier for someone to push him aside from within.   Yet, paradoxically, the perception that the U.S. wants to destroy Iraq may increase Saddam Hussein\'s support within theIraqi military. And the U.S. now will face sharper questionsin the Arab world since it did n\'t  back  the peace proposalsworked out in Moscow. "We looked to the United States, weexpected you to have the moral edge," says Nasser Tahboub, aJerusalem-born Jordanian who has an American wife and adoctorate in political science from Duke University. "Now wesee that edge eroded. For me, it is a great tragedy. For thefirst time in history, the U.S. has gone to war with an Araband Muslim nation, and we know a peaceful solution was inreach."   ---   Geraldine Brooks in Amman, Jordan, and Craig Forman inCairo, Egypt, contributed to this article.', 'let', 'WSJ910225-0066.tml']
['   Anheuser-Busch Cos. said it plans to aggressively discount its major beer brands, setting the stage for a potentially bruising price war as the maturing industry\'s growth continues to slow.    Anheuser, the world\'s largest brewer and U.S. market leader, has historically been reluctant to engage in price-cutting as a means of boosting sales volume. With the passing of the heady days of swelling industry sales, however, the once-sporadic and brief forays into discounting are becoming standard competitive weapons in the beer industry.    Over the summer, Anheuser competitors offered more and deeper discounts than industry observers have seen for a long time. Some experts now predict Anheuser\'s entry into the fray means near-term earnings trouble for all the industry players.    The St. Louis company said major rivals, Philip Morris Co.\'s Miller Brewing unit and Adolph Coors Co. "have been following a policy of continuous and deep discounting for at least the past 18 months" on their premium brands, pricing their product as much as 25 cents a 12-pack below Anheuser\'s Budweiser label in many markets. Anheuser said it\'s discounting policy basically would involve matching such moves by rivals on a market-by-market basis.    Anheuser-Busch announced its plan at the same time it reported third-quarter net income rose a lower-than-anticipated 5.2% to $238.3 million, or 83 cents a share, from $226.5 million, or 78 cents. Third-period sales were $2.49 billion, up from last year\'s $2.34 billion.    Anheuser said its new strategy -- started in some markets last month and expected to be applied soon in selected markets nationwide -- will mean lower-than-anticipated earnings for the last half of 1989 and for 1990. The projection sent Anheuser shares plunging $4.375 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. The stock closed at $38.50 on heavy volume of about 3.5 million shares. Shares of Coors, the company\'s sole publicly traded major competitor, fell $1.50 apiece to $19.125 in national over-the-counter trading, apparently on investor concerns over potential fallout from the coming pricing struggle.    Anheuser noted that "beer industry sales volume is 1989 is following the trend that has characterized the last half of the \'80s, with sales volume being essentially flat" while consolidation creates fewer, bigger players.    "We cannot permit a further slowing in our volume trend," Anheuser said, adding it will take "appropriate competitive pricing actions to support our long-term market share growth strategy" for the premium brands. Anheuser said it continues to hold to its earlier-announced goal of a 50% U.S. market share by the mid-1990s.    Beneath the tepid news-release jargon lies a powerful threat from the brewing giant, which last year accounted for about 41% of all U.S. beer sales and is expected to see that grow to 42.5% in the current year. "Anheuser is the biggest guy in the bar, and he just decided to join in the barroom brawl," said Joseph J. Doyle, an analyst with Smith Barney, Harris Upham amp Co. "It\'s going to get bloody."    Jerry Steinman, publisher of Beer Marketers Insights, a trade newsletter, said Anheuser\'s announcement means "everybody else in the industry is going to have a difficult time reaching their profit objectives."    Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. analyst George E. Thompson downplayed the importance of the announcement, and called any comparison between the coming beer-industry tiff and the seemingly unending "cola wars," unwarranted. Mr. Thompson calls discounting "a loser\'s game for anyone without a dominant market share," and projected that Anheuser\'s statement of intent could simply be a means of warning competitors to ease up on price-cutting or face a costly and fruitless battle.    Mr. Thompson noted that the disappointing earnings, which fell five cents a share short of his own projections, contributed to the sell-off by an edgy and currently unforgiving investing public.    But Smith Barney\'s Mr. Doyle, who yesterday trimmed his 1990 Anheuser earnings projection to $2.95 a share from $3.10, called the market\'s reaction "justified." While the third-quarter earnings were a "moderate disappointment," he said, "the real bad news is the intensity of price competition" in the premium-beer sector.    According to Mr. Steinman, the newsletter publisher, Anheuser\'s market share is nearly twice that of its nearest competitor, Miller Brewing, which had a 21.2% stake last year. It\'s followed by Stroh Brewery Co., which has agreed to sell its assets to Coors. Both Coors and Stroh have recently been ceding market share to Miller and Anheuser. ', 'permit', 'wsj_1014.tml']
['   Even as Saddam Hussein was searching for a ploy to ease his isolation, though, the international pressure against him clicked up another notch. The White House yesterday disclosed that Kuwait\'s ousted government has formally asked the U.S. to enforce the total trade embargo the United Nations has imposed on Iraq, allowing the U.S. and other nations to immediately begin stopping ships carrying Iraqi goods.   Secretary of State James Baker, speaking on ABC News\' "This Week," said the Kuwaiti request gives the U.S. and other countries "a legal basis for stopping the export of oil and that sort of thing." The U.S. maintains that under the U.N. charter, the Kuwaiti request triggers steps for the collective enforcement of international sanctions.   Mr. Baker declined to use the word blockade, but said that"interdiction" of Iraqi shipments would begin " almost instantly." In a statement, the White House said it would do "whatever is necessary" to ensure compliance with the sanctions.   Other Bush administration officials said that the international naval force in the area -- consisting of American, British, French, Canadian, Soviet, German and Australian ships -- may be used both to stop oil exports from leaving Iraq and Kuwait and to stop shipments of food andother goods from going in. President Bush implied as much yesterday when reporters asked whether the interdiction would apply to food. The president responded, "Everything, everything." While shying away from actually using the word "blockade," Mr. Bush acknowledged that the U.S. and others were trying to block shipping to Iraq. "No point getting into all these semantics," he said. "The main thing is to stop the oil from coming out of there."   The naval interdiction force is part of an overall American strategy that officials say is designed to leave the Iraqi leader with only the stark choice of backing out of Kuwait or launching new attacks to change his situation.Though they insist they are n\'t trying to lure Saddam Hussein into an attack, officials hope that if he strikes again, the U.S. and its allies will have such an impressive force in place in Saudi Arabia that they will be able to crush him inretaliation.   Iraq\'s first option, of course, may be simply to  sit tight and hope it can endure a trade embargo longer than the West can live without Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil. Speaking on the ABC program, Abdul Amir al-Anbari, Iraq\'s ambassador to the U.N., asserted that an embargo on Iraq could plunge the U.S. into a "depression" and the rest of the world into an economic "crisis."   Iraq clearly is trying to woo back more Arab support in case the conflict drags on, hoping that its neighbors eventually will help it survive a prolonged war of economic attrition with the West. So Saddam Hussein on Friday tried to scare other Arab leaders into supporting him by calling onArabs to rise up in a holy war against leaders who invited American and other Western soldiers into Saudi Arabia to protect the oil-rich kingdom.   Then yesterday, he tried to entice Arab leaders with his proposal for a diplomatic solution linking his occupation of Kuwait with Israel\'s occupation of the West Bank. The proposal also called for replacing American and other Western troops in Saudi Arabia with Arab forces. The Bush administration immediately said it "categorically " rejects the proposals. And President Bush yesterday, asked whether he was at least glad Iraq is discussing negotiations, replied: "I do n\'t see anything to be pleasing in there at all."   American strategists are  calculating  , though, that the trade sanctions -- enforced by an effective though perhaps undeclared naval blockade -- will hold tightly enough to convince Iraq that it will lose in the long run by simply standing pat.   At that point, rather than go through the humiliation of backing out of Kuwait, the Iraqis might well conclude that they need to lash out in some way to shake things up. In that event, Saddam Hussein appears to  have three choices.   The first would be to  launch the much-feared direct invasion of Saudi Arabia, hoping to seize some Saudi oil fields and improve his bargaining position. But that option is growing less and less likely as thousands of American, British, Egyptian, Syrian and Moroccan forces assemble in and around Saudi Arabia to protect the kingdom. The Saudis even have in their possession 48 Kuwaiti jet fighters, virtually the entire Kuwaiti air force, which managed to escape the Iraqi invasion, Saudi officials said. The Saudi "window of vulnerability . . . is closing very fast," Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to Washington, said over the weekend.   The second possibility would be to  start a fight with Israel, in hopes that all Arabs would have to move behind Iraq in a fight against their common Israeli enemy. In such an event, Saddam Hussein also might calculate, the Saudis would be under pressure to kick out U.S. troops because of America\'s close ties with Israel.   Iraq could start hostilities with Israel either through a direct attack or by attacking Jordan. Israel has publicly declared that it will respond to an Iraqi attack on Jordan because it wo n\'t allow Iraq\'s dangerous army to take control of Jordan\'s long border with Israel.   Iraq\'s third attack option would be to  start an undeclared war on the U.S. and other Western nations through terrorism.Two Middle East terrorists with records of successful attacks against Western targets, Abu Nidal and Abu Abbas, have ties to Baghdad. And even terrorist groups that opposed Iraq in its war with Iran show signs of swinging behind Saddam Hussein now that he is in a confrontation with the U.S.    And Iraq still has thousands of Americans and other Westerners under its control in Iraq and Kuwait. They are n\'t being allowed to leave and could become hostages.   If Iraq chooses a simple war of nerves and economic attrition, the Bush administration knows a long stalemate could try the patience of the American public and the West in general, and could open the possibility that moderate Arabs -- even including Saudi Arabia -- might drop out of the effort against Iraq and accept some deal from Saddam Hussein.   But U.S. officials have sized up Saddam Hussein as a man who, despite some recklessness, will back down if he must."This is a guy who is impulsive, and therefore capable of big miscalculations," says one senior administration official involved in managing the crisis. The official  adds , though,that "at the same time, we think he is someone who is capable of rational judgments when it comes to power. And when he finds something is unprofitable, then one can see certain accommodations."   Thus, administration aides will be trying to calculate whether Saddam Hussein\'s proposed diplomatic formula for getting out of Kuwait represents the first sign he is searching for a way out or simply is a public relations stunt.   There are disagreements among experts about how much pressure will be needed to make Saddam Hussein decide he\'s up against the wall and whether simple economic pressure will ever be enough. The biggest worry is that if he decides he needs a way out of his predicament but does n\'t see a face-saving method, he could lash out in dangerous and unpredictable ways.   U.S. officials claim they already see signs Saddam Hussein is getting nervous. In the first days after President Bush announced the dispatching of U.S. troops, they note, the Iraqi leader made several nationwide addresses indirectly -- having them read by a television announcer. "That shows he\'s nervous about pinpointing his location, either because he\'s afraid we\'ll find him, or that internal enemies will," says one U.S. official.   The unpredictability of Iraq\'s leader is a principal reason the U.S. is going to such great lengths to build a mammoth force in and around Saudi Arabia. Pentagon officials say the goal is to put 40,000 troops in the region by the end of the month. But the administration is n\'t putting any upper limit on how high the force could go after that, calculating that it would be a mistake to underestimate and an advantage to keep Saddam Hussein guessing. U.S. commanders in charge of planning for Middle East crises have indicated in the past that they were capable of deploying as many as 300,000troops.   And the U.S. is taking similar steps to ensure that its naval force is adequate to carry out a blockade of Iraq and support a war if necessary. Over the weekend, Pentagon officials confirmed reports that a fourth U.S. aircraft carrier -- the John F. Kennedy -- and its powerful group of support ships could head for the Middle East within a few days. Three other carriers and their escort vessels already are stationed within striking distance of Iraq or are steaming toward the area.   But unless the military situation changes drastically, military officials say, the most likely plan will be for the Kennedy to eventually replace the carrier Dwight D. Eisenhower, which has been on patrol since March and was scheduled to return to port before hostilities erupted in Kuwait.   ---   Andy Pasztor contributed to this article.', 'allow', 'WSJ900813-0157.tml']
['   This has n\'t been Kellogg Co.\'s year. The oat-bran craze has cost the world\'s largest cereal maker market share. The company\'s president quit suddenly. And now Kellogg is indefinitely suspending work on what was to be a $1 billion cereal plant.    The company said it was delaying construction because of current market conditions. But the Memphis, Tenn., facility wasn\'t to begin turning out product until 1993, so the decision may reveal a more pessimistic long-term outlook as well.    Kellogg, which has n\'t been as successful in capitalizing on the public\'s health-oriented desire for oat bran as rival General Mills Inc., has been losing share in the $6 billion ready-to-eat cereal market. Kellogg\'s current share is believed to be slightly under 40% while General Mills\' share is about 27%.    Led by its oat-based Cheerios line, General Mills has gained an estimated 2% share so far this year, mostly at the expense of Kellogg. Each share point is worth about $60 million in sales.    Analysts say much of Kellogg\'s erosion has been in such core brands as Corn Flakes, Rice Krispies and Frosted Flakes, which represent nearly one-third of its sales volume. Kellogg is so anxious to turn around Corn Flakes sales that it soon will begin selling boxes for as little as 99 cents, trade sources say.    "Cheerios and Honey Nut Cheerios have eaten away sales normally going to Kellogg\'s corn-based lines simply because they are made of oats," says Merrill Lynch food analyst William Maguire. "They are not  a happy group of people at Battle Creek right now." Kellogg is based in Battle Creek, Mich., a city that calls itself the breakfast capital of the world.    Another analyst, John C. Maxwell Jr. of Wheat, First Securities in Richmond, Va., recently went to a "sell" recommendation on Kellogg stock, which closed Friday at $71.75, down 75 cents, in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. "I do n\'t think Kellogg can get back to 40% this year," he said. "Kellogg\'s main problem is life style. People are reading the boxes and deciding they want something that\'s `healthy\' for you -- oats, bran." Mr. Maxwell said he would n\'t be surprised if, over the next two years or so, General Mills\' share increased to 30% or more.    In announcing the plant delay, Kellogg Chairman William E. LaMothe said, "Cereal volume growth in the U.S. has not met our expectations for 1989." He said construction would n\'t resume until market conditions warrant it.    Kellogg indicated that it has room to grow without adding facilities. The company has five other U.S. plants, including a modern facility at its Battle Creek headquarters known as Building 100, which is to add bran-processing and rice-processing capacity next year.    General Mills, meanwhile , finds itself constrained from boosting sales further because its plants are operating at capacity. A large plant in Covington, Ga., is to come on line next year.    A Kellogg officer, who asked not to be named, said the Memphis project was " pulled in for a reconsideration of costs," an indication that the ambitious plans might be scaled back in any future construction. Initial cost estimates for the plant, which was to have been built in phases, ranged from $1 billion to $1.2 billion.    A company spokesman said it was "possible, but highly unlikely," that the plant might never be built. "As we regain our leadership level where we have been, and as we continue to put new products into the marketplace and need additional capacity, we will look at resuming our involvement with our plan," he said.    The new facility was to have been the world\'s most advanced cereal manufacturing plant, and Kellogg\'s largest construction project. The company had retained the Fluor Daniel unit of Fluor Corp. as general contractor.    But in recent weeks, construction-industry sources reported that early preparation work was slowing at the 185-acre site. Subcontractors said they were told that equipment orders would be delayed. Fluor Daniel already has reassigned most of its work crew, the sources said.    Last Friday\'s announcement was the first official word that the project was in trouble and that the company\'s plans for a surge in market share may have been overly optimistic. Until recently, Kellogg had been telling its sales force and Wall Street that by 1992 it intended to achieve a 50% share of market, measured in dollar volume.    Although he called current market conditions "highly competitive," Mr. LaMothe, Kellogg\'s chairman and chief executive officer, forecast an earnings increase for the full year. Last year, the company earned $480.4 million, or $3.90 a share, on sales of $4.3 billion.    As expected, Kellogg reported lower third-quarter earnings. Net fell 16% to $123.1 million, or $1.02 a share, from $145.7 million, or $1.18 a share. Sales rose 4.8% to $1.20 billion from $1.14 billion.    The company had a one-time charge of $14.8 million in the latest quarter covering the disposition of certain assets. The company would n\'t elaborate, citing competitive reasons. ', 'warrant', 'wsj_0610.tml']
